"AwardNumber#long","Title","NSFOrganization","Program(s)#multi","StartDate#date","LastAmendmentDate#date","PrincipalInvestigator#long","State","Organization#long","AwardInstrument","ProgramManager","EndDate#date","AwardedAmountToDate#number","Co-PIName(s)#long","PIEmailAddress#hidden","OrganizationStreet#hidden","OrganizationCity#hidden","OrganizationState#hidden","Address#textlocation","OrganizationZip#hidden","OrganizationPhone#hidden","NSFDirectorate","ProgramElementCode(s)#multi","ProgramReferenceCode(s)#multi","ARRAAmount#number","Abstract#long","#href","Award Link#link","#img","#name"
"1115210","Digitization HUB: A Collections Digitization Framework for the 21st Century","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2011","7/8/2015","Lawrence Page","FL","University of Florida","Cooperative Agreement","Reed Beaman","6/30/2017","$12,611,986.00 ","Bruce MacFadden, Jose Fortes, Pamela Soltis, Gregory Riccardi","lpage1@ufl.edu","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA","GAINESVILLE","FL","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE, FL","326112002","3523923516","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","The accelerated loss of biodiversity, the ""Biodiversity Crisis"", is one of the leading environmental and social issues of the 21st century. Although natural biological diversity is fundamentally important to a healthy and sustainable planet, responses to the crisis have suffered from incomplete information and inadequate policies for sustainable use of natural resources. Information relevant to addressing the impact of declining biodiversity is housed within the nation's natural history and related biosystematic collections, but is inaccessible to most researchers and policy makers. The National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections (Integrated Digitized Biocollections; iDigBio) was established to develop an integrated national infrastructure for digitization of existing biodiversity collections in the U.S. The iDigBio project team and infrastructure provides leadership, facilitates communication, and coordinates digitization and educational activities at TCNs (thematic collections networks) and many other biocollections throughout the U.S. Through iDigBio, data for millions of biological specimens are being made publically available in electronic format via customized cloud computing. Diverse data, such as taxonomy, geographic location, 2- and 3-dimensional images, vocalizations, and molecular resources, are tied to the specimens themselves. These data promote integrative biodiversity research on living and fossil species and provide an immense baseline for assessing the impacts of climate change, invasive species, and other environmental issues. The iDigBio project is thus changing the culture of the biocollections community to make digitization become a standard practice through new technologies, techniques, training, and standards of operation.<br/><br/>The iDigBio project serves several target audiences and stakeholders, including the biological research community, young biologists entering the profession, non-federal agencies, and the general public. These audiences are being engaged through diverse activities, including workshops, small focus groups, training sessions, symposia at professional meetings, on-line webinars, and related e-learning opportunities developed via the iDigBio web-site. University students are learning about, and are engaged in, this national digitization effort via courses, seminars, mentoring, online resources, and individual research. Graduate student assistantships and young faculty sabbaticals supported by iDigBio are broadening representation and diversifying the professional workforce. The iDigBio web-site, newsletter, and exhibits communicate advances, discoveries and opportunities to the public. The goals, activities, outputs, and outcomes of iDigBio are being evaluated by the Center for Informal Science Education at UF. Although primarily focused on the target audiences described above, the outputs and outcomes of iDigBio will also be available to federal agencies and international stakeholders. The long-term vision for iDigBio is a highly coordinated biocollections digitization community to serve the needs of diverse stakeholders, from the professional systematist to the general public, and communicate the importance of this national resource to advance research and education in the 21st century.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1115210","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1115210","cyan_cloud","Digitization HUB: A Collections Digitization Framework for the 21st Century"
"1547229","Digitization: iDigBio: Integrated Digitized Biocollections Phase 2","DBI","Digitization","9/1/2016","8/25/2016","Lawrence Page","FL","University of Florida","Cooperative Agreement","Roland Roberts","8/31/2021","$3,604,538.00 ","Bruce MacFadden, Jose Fortes, Pamela Soltis, Gregory Riccardi","lpage1@ufl.edu","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA","GAINESVILLE","FL","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE, FL","326112002","3523923516","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Integrated Digitized Biocollections (idigbio.org) at the University of Florida (UF) and Florida State University (FSU) is the national resource for Advancing Digitization of Biodiversity Collections (ADBC). The ADBC program was developed in response to the need for a sustained effort to digitize, and make available online, the vast amount of information in the nation's biodiversity collections, which may contain up to 1 billion specimens. For biological specimens, information digitized include names of species, localities and dates of collection, digital photographs, sound, video, and 3-D models created from a variety of sources. This community digitization effort is supported by ADBC through Thematic Collections Networks (TCNs), groups of institutions that digitize specimens to address a major research topic such as the relationship between agricultural crops and insects or the impacts of invasive species on natural ecosystems. iDigBio assists in coordinating activities of the TCNs by facilitating development of standards and workflows for digitization of specimens and related information, providing cyberinfrastructure resources to enable long-term preservation of digital data, promoting novel and traditional uses of collections data in research and outreach, and working with the collections community to plan for the long-term sustainability of the national program and the resources that program has produced. The availability of digitized information about specimens greatly enhances the ability to conduct research on biological diversity and to address some of the most fundamental questions in biology. <br/><br/>In the past five years, the national effort to digitize information in the nation's biodiversity collections has been successfully catalyzed by funding from NSF and advanced by activities of iDigBio. Collaborations with data providers and users have been developed, goals and priorities defined, and best practices related to digitization identified. Cyberinfrastructure resources, including a national search portal, have been provided. These community-driven activities have led to improved digitization practices, increased involvement in digitization and training, and adoption of instruments and informatics tools that improve the efficiency and scalability of digitization and research workflows in all types of biodiversity collections. iDigBio works with staff in more than 450 collections in 270 institutions distributed in all 50 states. Communication among stakeholders to increase access to collections data has been established through workshops, webinars, and the use of social media. iDigBio has sponsored attendance of more than 2,200 participants from 511 institutions to over 65 workshops and symposia that targeted digitization. iDigBio has ingested more than 670 record sets containing 48 million records and 13 million images. All data ingested are indexed so that queries and other types of index-based access are supported. Searches for data can be done through a Web-based graphical interface or through programmatic APIs. Search and analytical tools enable users to mine diverse data such as taxonomy, location, images, traits, and vocalizations. Funding for another five years, will allow iDigBio to continue its successful strategies with an increasing emphasis on data improvement and use in research and outreach. This national resource created by the ADBC program is increasingly recognized as an essential resource for information on biodiversity and digitization. As the scientific and societal benefits of validated collections data are realized, digitization will become a common and sustained practice in natural history collections.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1547229","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1547229","cyan_cloud","Digitization: iDigBio: Integrated Digitized Biocollections Phase 2"
"1458640","Collaborative Research: ABI Innovation: Connecting resources to enable large-scale biodiversity analyses","DBI","ADVANCES IN BIO INFORMATICS|Systematics & Biodiversity Sci","7/15/2015","7/8/2015","Douglas Soltis","FL","University of Florida","Standard Grant","Jennifer Weller","6/30/2018","$834,828.00 ","Jose Fortes, Pamela Soltis, Andrea Matsunaga","dsoltis@botany.ufl.edu","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA","GAINESVILLE","FL","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE, FL","326112002","3523923516","BIO","1165|7374","7433|9169|EGCH","$0.00 ","Extracting biological knowledge from complex datasets such as those now being compiled requires integration of powerful computational tools. Recent developments in computational biology as well as rich new data sources provide novel opportunities for integrating massive amounts of biological data. This perfect storm of new data and advanced data acquisition, management, and integration afford the unique opportunity to drive the discovery of new, complex patterns in biology. The project will leverage NSF's considerable investment in biodiversity tools provided by Open Tree of Life (the framework for the project), Lifemapper (which handles geospatial data), iDigBio (data from ~1 billion museum specimens that carry locality data and their ecological information), and Arbor (computer tools that permit new analyses from the sources noted). It will create much needed computational connections among these tools. It will then build upon these new linkages and tools, enabling novel research in biodiversity. These linkages will provide researchers the opportunity to rapidly synthesize datasets and use them to address diverse evolutionary questions. The tools and infrastructure the project will build will connect species relationships with species distribution models, climate projections, genes and traits. The project will transform future studies of biodiversity; it will provide a global integration of powerful tools that will permit new data-driven discovery in ""next generation"" biodiversity science. It will provide interdisciplinary post-doc and graduate student training in bioinformatics, use of digitized specimen data, and complex analyses (e.g. ecological analyses), preparing the biodiversity scientists of the future. The project will recruit underrepresented students and women and develop an undergrad course that will help train students with the integrative skills (field biology to computational biology) needed in the workforce. We will further develop this module for wider classroom use. We will introduce an annual week-long course at University of Florida (UF) for students and post-docs on the use of the resources developed. With education specialists at UF, the project will produce video materials and a coordinated display for general audiences on the importance of digitized specimen data, and their utility for studies of climate change. <br/><br/>The project will develop a computational framework linking diverse data (trees of species relationships, morphology, ecology, fossils, geography, and climate) across research tools used by the biological community, including Open Tree of Life, which will serve as the framework to which all other biological data - traits, genes, genomes, and especially specimens - will be linked, as well as Lifemapper, iDigBio, and Arbor. Use of the large, hyper-diverse plant group Saxifragales will provide precisely what is needed to drive the development of these tools--a comprehensive dataset that covers morphology, ecology, geography, fossils, and climate provides a test case for refining the tools the project will develop and their integration. The project will: 1. Facilitate new synergistic research of broad utility at the interface of phylogenetics, ecology, evolutionary biology, biogeography and biodiversity science, enabling scientists to address novel questions relating phenotypic and ecological biodiversity, spatial and temporal variation, community assembly, and diversification across landscapes and through time. 2. Increase visibility and accessibility of iDigBio, Open Tree of Life, Arbor, and Lifemapper resources by linking them together and making them available through multiple access points (e.g., pre-existing tools associated with Arbor and Lifemapper) in a variety of appropriate formats. 3. Develop a complete, multifaceted species-level dataset for a large clade (Saxifragales), which will not only fill in this branch on the ToL, but will produce a resource of great utility for the scientific community to explore. 4. Demonstrate the utility of iDigBio, Open Tree, Lifemapper, and Arbor resources with a comprehensive analysis using near complete sampling of Saxifragales, for which we will add the following data layers: DNA sequences, morphology, fossils, ontologies, geospatial and environmental data, digitized voucher specimens, and link to the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL). The project will: 1) provide interdisciplinary post-doc and graduate student training in bioinformatics, large-scale phylogeny reconstruction, use of digitized specimen data, and complex post-tree analyses (e.g. niche modeling, niche diversification), preparing the integrative biodiversity scientists of the future; 2) recruit underrepresented students and women; 3) developed an undergrad course that uses field collection, herbarium specimens, digitized data (iDigBio), and niche modeling (with climate change; 4) introduce an annual week-long course (UF) for students and post-docs on the use of the resources produced; 5) produce video materials and a coordinated display for general audiences on the importance of digitized specimen data, their utility for modeling niche evolution through time and implications for climate change. The project will provide a platform that will enable other researchers to take the same integrated approach in other groups. It will also establish web links to EOL and 1) build species pages; 2) place morphological and other trait data on TraitBank, making these widely available; 3) work with EOL and iNaturalist to engage citizen scientists.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458640","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458640","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: ABI Innovation: Connecting resources to enable large-scale biodiversity analyses"
"1458466","Collaborative Research: ABI Innovation: Connecting resources to enable large-scale biodiversity analyses.","DBI","ADVANCES IN BIO INFORMATICS","7/15/2015","7/8/2015","Stephen A Smith","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Peter H. McCartney","6/30/2018","$294,514.00 ","","eebsmith@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","BIO","1165","7433","$0.00 ","Extracting biological knowledge from complex datasets such as those now being compiled requires integration of powerful computational tools. Recent developments in computational biology as well as rich new data sources provide novel opportunities for integrating massive amounts of biological data. This perfect storm of new data and advanced data acquisition, management, and integration afford the unique opportunity to drive the discovery of new, complex patterns in biology. The project will leverage NSF's considerable investment in biodiversity tools provided by Open Tree of Life (the framework for the project), Lifemapper (which handles geospatial data), iDigBio (data from~1 billion museum specimens that carry locality data and their ecological information), and Arbor (computer tools that permit new analyses from the sources noted). It will create much needed computational connections among these tools. It will then build upon these new linkages and tools, enabling novel research in biodiversity. These linkages will provide researchers the opportunity to rapidly synthesize datasets and use them to address diverse evolutionary questions. The tools and infrastructure the project will build will connect species relationships with species distribution models, climate projections, genes and traits. The project will transform future studies of biodiversity; it will provide a global integration of powerful tools that will permit new data-driven discovery in ""next generation"" biodiversity science. It will provide interdisciplinary post-doc and graduate student training in bioinformatics, use of digitized specimen data, and complex analyses (e.g. ecological analyses), preparing the biodiversity scientists of the future. The project will recruit underrepresented students and women and develop an undergrad course that will help train students with the integrative skills (field biology to computational biology) needed in the workforce. We will further develop this module for wider classroom use. We will introduce an annual week-long course at University of Florida (UF) for students and post-docs on the use of the resources developed. With education specialists at UF, the project will produce video materials and a coordinated display for general audiences on the importance of digitized specimen data, and their utility for studies of climate change. <br/><br/>The project will develop a computational framework linking diverse data (trees of species relationships, morphology, ecology, fossils, geography, and climate) across research tools used by the biological community, including Open Tree of Life, which will serve as the framework to which all other biological data - traits, genes, genomes, and especially specimens - will be linked, as well as Lifemapper, iDigBio, and Arbor. Use of the large, hyper-diverse plant group Saxifragales will provide precisely what is needed to drive the development of these tools--a comprehensive dataset that covers morphology, ecology, geography, fossils, and climate provides a test case for refining the tools the project will develop and their integration. The project will: 1. Facilitate new synergistic research of broad utility at the interface of phylogenetics, ecology, evolutionary biology, biogeography and biodiversity science, enabling scientists to address novel questions relating phenotypic and ecological biodiversity, spatial and temporal variation, community assembly, and diversification across landscapes and through time. 2. Increase visibility and accessibility of iDigBio, Open Tree of Life, Arbor, and Lifemapper resources by linking them together and making them available through multiple access points (e.g., pre-existing tools associated with Arbor and Lifemapper) in a variety of appropriate formats. 3. Develop a complete, multifaceted species-level dataset for a large clade (Saxifragales), which will not only fill in this branch on the ToL, but will produce a resource of great utility for the scientific community to explore. 4. Demonstrate the utility of iDigBio, Open Tree, Lifemapper, and Arbor resources with a comprehensive analysis using near complete sampling of Saxifragales, for which we will add the following data layers: DNA sequences, morphology, fossils, ontologies, geospatial and environmental data, digitized voucher specimens, and link to the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL). The project will: 1) provide interdisciplinary post-doc and graduate student training in bioinformatics, large-scale phylogeny reconstruction, use of digitized specimen data, and complex post-tree analyses (e.g. niche modeling, niche diversification), preparing the integrative biodiversity scientists of the future; 2) recruit underrepresented students and women; 3) developed an undergrad course that uses field collection, herbarium specimens, digitized data (iDigBio), and niche modeling (with climate change; 4) introduce an annual week-long course (UF) for students and post-docs on the use of the resources produced; 5) produce video materials and a coordinated display for general audiences on the importance of digitized specimen data, their utility for modeling niche evolution through time and implications for climate change. The project will provide a platform that will enable other researchers to take the same integrated approach in other groups. It will also establish web links to EOL and 1) build species pages; 2) place morphological and other trait data on TraitBank, making these widely available; 3) work with EOL and iNaturalist to engage citizen scientists.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458466","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458466","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: ABI Innovation: Connecting resources to enable large-scale biodiversity analyses."
"1458422","Collaborative Research: ABI Innovation: Connecting resources to enable large-scale biodiversity analyses","DBI","ADVANCES IN BIO INFORMATICS","7/15/2015","7/8/2015","James Beach","KS","University of Kansas Center for Research Inc","Standard Grant","Peter H. McCartney","6/30/2018","$609,564.00 ","Jorge Soberon, Aimee Stewart","beach@ku.edu","2385 IRVING HILL RD","LAWRENCE","KS","2385 IRVING HILL RD, LAWRENCE, KS","660457568","7858643441","BIO","1165","7433|9150","$0.00 ","Extracting biological knowledge from complex datasets such as those now being compiled requires integration of powerful computational tools. Recent developments in computational biology as well as rich new data sources provide novel opportunities for integrating massive amounts of biological data. This perfect storm of new data and advanced data acquisition, management, and integration afford the unique opportunity to drive the discovery of new, complex patterns in biology. The project will leverage NSF's considerable investment in biodiversity tools provided by Open Tree of Life (the framework for the project), Lifemapper (which handles geospatial data), iDigBio (data from ~1 billion museum specimens that carry locality data and their ecological information), and Arbor (computer tools that permit new analyses from the sources noted). It will create much needed computational connections among these tools. It will then build upon these new linkages and tools, enabling novel research in biodiversity. These linkages will provide researchers the opportunity to rapidly synthesize datasets and use them to address diverse evolutionary questions. The tools and infrastructure the project will build will connect species relationships with species distribution models, climate projections, genes and traits. The project will transform future studies of biodiversity; it will provide a global integration of powerful tools that will permit new data-driven discovery in ""next generation"" biodiversity science. It will provide interdisciplinary post-doc and graduate student training in bioinformatics, use of digitized specimen data, and complex analyses (e.g. ecological analyses), preparing the biodiversity scientists of the future. The project will recruit underrepresented students and women and develop an undergrad course that will help train students with the integrative skills (field biology to computational biology) needed in the workforce. We will further develop this module for wider classroom use. We will introduce an annual week-long course at University of Florida (UF) for students and post-docs on the use of the resources developed. With education specialists at UF, the project will produce video materials and a coordinated display for general audiences on the importance of digitized specimen data, and their utility for studies of climate change. <br/><br/>The project will develop a computational framework linking diverse data (trees of species relationships, morphology, ecology, fossils, geography, and climate) across research tools used by the biological community, including Open Tree of Life, which will serve as the framework to which all other biological data - traits, genes, genomes, and especially specimens - will be linked, as well as Lifemapper, iDigBio, and Arbor. Use of the large, hyper-diverse plant group Saxifragales will provide precisely what is needed to drive the development of these tools--a comprehensive dataset that covers morphology, ecology, geography, fossils, and climate provides a test case for refining the tools the project will develop and their integration. The project will: 1. Facilitate new synergistic research of broad utility at the interface of phylogenetics, ecology, evolutionary biology, biogeography and biodiversity science, enabling scientists to address novel questions relating phenotypic and ecological biodiversity, spatial and temporal variation, community assembly, and diversification across landscapes and through time. 2. Increase visibility and accessibility of iDigBio, Open Tree of Life, Arbor, and Lifemapper resources by linking them together and making them available through multiple access points (e.g., pre-existing tools associated with Arbor and Lifemapper) in a variety of appropriate formats. 3. Develop a complete, multifaceted species-level dataset for a large clade (Saxifragales), which will not only fill in this branch on the ToL, but will produce a resource of great utility for the scientific community to explore. 4. Demonstrate the utility of iDigBio, Open Tree, Lifemapper, and Arbor resources with a comprehensive analysis using near complete sampling of Saxifragales, for which we will add the following data layers: DNA sequences, morphology, fossils, ontologies, geospatial and environmental data, digitized voucher specimens, and link to the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL). The project will: 1) provide interdisciplinary post-doc and graduate student training in bioinformatics, large-scale phylogeny reconstruction, use of digitized specimen data, and complex post-tree analyses (e.g. niche modeling, niche diversification), preparing the integrative biodiversity scientists of the future; 2) recruit underrepresented students and women; 3) developed an undergrad course that uses field collection, herbarium specimens, digitized data (iDigBio), and niche modeling (with climate change; 4) introduce an annual week-long course (UF) for students and post-docs on the use of the resources produced; 5) produce video materials and a coordinated display for general audiences on the importance of digitized specimen data, their utility for modeling niche evolution through time and implications for climate change. The project will provide a platform that will enable other researchers to take the same integrated approach in other groups. It will also establish web links to EOL and 1) build species pages; 2) place morphological and other trait data on TraitBank, making these widely available; 3) work with EOL and iNaturalist to engage citizen scientists.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458422","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458422","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: ABI Innovation: Connecting resources to enable large-scale biodiversity analyses"
"1356438","Collaborative Research: ABI Development: Kurator: A Provenance-enabled Workflow Platform and Toolkit to Curate Biodiversity Data","DBI","ADVANCES IN BIO INFORMATICS|CI REUSE|CROSS-EF ACTIVITIES","9/1/2014","8/11/2014","James Hanken","MA","Harvard University","Standard Grant","Peter H. McCartney","8/31/2017","$896,967.00 ","","hanken@oeb.harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","BIO","1165|6892|7275","7433","$0.00 ","The University of Illinois Urbana Champaign and Harvard University are awarded grants to develop software tools for scientific data digitization, sharing, integration and use. The considerable challenge to digitizing natural science collections in the U.S. (and globally) necessitate a focus on both digitization efficiencies and the utility of the generated data. This grant will develop a novel, extensible, open source toolkit (Kurator) for automated and semi-automated workflows with diverse curation services to aid biodiversity research and beyond. This project will enhance discovery and understanding while promoting teaching, training and learning. A postdoctoral fellow will be trained in provenance enhanced workflow technology and contribute to Kurator design and implementation. Principles of data management curation with a focus on provenance will be taught in undergraduate and graduate courses. This project will also enhance infrastructure for research and education through collaborations with iDigBio and the Encyclopedia of Life. Educational modules and outreach activities on data quality and data curation will be developed for undergraduates and high school educators. Several Thematic Collection Networks will provide data via iDigBio for testing to insure dissemination of high quality data. Critical community authority files that do not have associated web services will be made available to the greater community as Kurator actors and services. <br/><br/>Kurator will consist of a user friendly web interface for users to configure and launch workflows while maintaining provenance, and a workflow platform for rapid development of new curation services and workflow variants. The latter will also be used to ""wrap"" valuable domain authority files that are not currently available as services. New ""curator-in-the-loop"" workflow technology allows us to directly involve experts in semi automatic curation pipelines, using human interaction actors via FilteredPush, other syndication methods, and discovery environments. Kurator will allow examination of data lineages to facilitate the assessment of credibility, supports repeatability in publication, informs legal proceedings where data are regulated, and provides context for feedback to a given resource. Kurator will facilitate digitization efforts through custom processing of raw data obtained from hardcopy specimen labels against existing services, including taxonomic name resolution, georeferencing, and duplicate specimen detection, as well as newly created customizable actors for appropriate controlled vocabularies to clean the data. Where required, semi-automated services can invoke expert review using annotation services and existing discovery environments. Curation pipelines can be integrated with other workflows for analysis of ecological, evolutionary, phenological, genomic and related data, can be shared or repurposed easily, and can be made accessible for publication.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1356438","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1356438","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: ABI Development: Kurator: A Provenance-enabled Workflow Platform and Toolkit to Curate Biodiversity Data"
"1560871","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Critical Conservation of Paleontological Collections at the NCSM: A Platform to Engage Underserved Students in Citizen Science","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/1/2016","8/9/2016","Lindsay Zanno","NC","Friends of the North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2018","$442,673.00 ","Patricia Weaver, Lisa Herzog, Vincent Schneider","lindsay.zanno@naturalsciences.org","11 West Jones Stree","Raleigh","NC","11 West Jones Stree, Raleigh, NC","276011029","9197079847","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","The North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences (NCSM), the largest natural science museum in the Southeast, maintains a regionally significant and globally unique fossil collection that is growing in number, reputation, visibility, and usage. These paleontological specimens are currently housed in metal-sheathed wooden cabinetry that is structurally unsound, off-gases acidic byproducts of decay, and possesses deteriorated felted door-gaskets that prevent an air-tight seal. Such conditions pose an immediate security and conservation risk to NCMS fossil specimens, particularly to scientifically significant holdings that are deteriorating from pyrite disease. This project will rehouse the NCSM paleontological holdings into museum-grade steel cabinets with archival materials following best practices in specimen conservation. The project will also introduce underserved public school students to citizen science where they will improve open-access natural history specimen data via measurements and 3D models and will integrate deeply with multiple existing NCSM programmatic efforts including a youth science communication opportunity to document and broadcast the project in action to public school audiences. <br/><br/>Rehousing will greatly increase the security, value, and long-term research and educational viability of the NCSM Paleontological Collection, which includes significant holdings in Ediacaran invertebrates, Cretaceous - Cenozoic echinoids, and one of the most extensive collections of Late Triassic vertebrates from eastern North America. The Paleontological Collection is an active resource for research and education, including public university courses taught annually by museum staff either inside the museum's on-exhibition Paleontology Research Lab or in the collections area. These activities regularly engage graduate and undergraduate students, and museum visitors with specimen-based paleontological research. NCSM receives about 1 million visitors each year and is free to the public, engaging culturally and socio-economically diverse audiences. This project capitalizes on specimen rehousing to broadly impact existing NCSM programs as well as create new STEM opportunities targeted for pre-professionals at multiple levels (underserved 9-12, undergraduate, and graduate students). Initiatives include the launch of a new citizen science program - Junior Curator: Fossil Collections - designed to increase open-access morphological data from NCSM paleontological specimens and engage local underserved students. Other goals are aimed at garnering community engagement with natural history collections by broadcasting a behind-the-scenes peek at collections care via live, scientist-to-classroom connections within the North Carolina Public School System; new content creation via NCSM's digital media production program TeenTV; monthly presentations in the NCSM's free Daily Planet Theater; and established NCSM social media platforms (e.g., multiple blog sites, Twitter, and live expedition websites.) Planned professional deliverables include iDigBio webinars. Results can be viewed at (collections.naturalsciences.org). This project will also support NCSM's demonstrated commitment to increasing accessibility of the Paleontological Collection as an external research resource. All paleontology collections at NCSM were recently registered with GRBIO and Earth Cube, and can be accessed via the Museum's website, The Gobal Biodiversity Information Facility, VertNet (invertebrate and vertebrate paleontology collections only) and iDigBio (idigbio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1560871","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1560871","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Critical Conservation of Paleontological Collections at the NCSM: A Platform to Engage Underserved Students in Citizen Science"
"1349404","Collaborative Research CBSR: Natural History: The Preservation, Digitization, and Data Basing of the Tardigrade Collection at the Bohart Museum of Entomology","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2014","7/5/2016","Lynn Kimsey","CA","University of California-Davis","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2017","$226,033.00 ","","lskimsey@ucdavis.edu","OR/Sponsored Programs","Davis","CA","OR/Sponsored Programs, Davis, CA","956186134","5307547700","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","Tardigrades, or water bears, are microscopic animals that live in the ocean and on land in aquatic or otherwise wet places. Currently there are about 1,150 described species, with new ones being discovered annually. They have sausage-shaped bodies, with 8 legs ending in long claws. Water bears are unique because they can enter a state of 'suspended life' called cryptobiosis as their habitat dries out. In this stage, they can tolerate extreme conditions of cold, heat, vacuum, and pressure. Water bears may remain in this condition for many years until moisture returns allowing them to continue on with their lives. For a long time few scientists studied tardigrades because they were thought to have little economic or health value that were important to humans. However, their ability to suspend life is now being studied as a way to extend the 'shelf life' of organs harvested for transplant. It has also been discovered that in this suspended state water bears may be dispersed by wind carrying plant disease-causing bacteria, and that as a result they may be responsible for the spread of some crop diseases. The medical and industrial applications of this biology plus the disease issues make it critical to understand the global distribution of water bear species and to develop an up-to-date taxonomic framework to facilitate this work. <br/><br/>Water bear research necessarily starts with museum collections. The largest North American collection is housed in the Bohart Museum of Entomology. Most of this 35,000 slide collection was acquired in the 1960-70s, and was prepared according to the best practices of the time. Unfortunately, best practices of the time meant using non-archival mounting media, which degrades over time. As a result the specimens are rapidly deteriorating. In addition, the taxonomy of the specimens has not been updated since the 1970's and they have not been databased. To address these issues, this project seeks to stabilize, repair and restore the specimens mounting them in archival quality media, image each specimen and upload the images and associated metadata on-line and integrate all data with iDigBio. The project will also train undergraduates at Fresno City College and UC Davis in the processes of preparation, repair, documentation, and data entry of large-scale collections. Initially, type and voucher specimens will be remounted - after the process has been perfected with duplicate specimens of non-type material - following lessons learned during a similar project on another group of arthropods, parasitoid wasps. Following this initial phase all other non-type specimens will be addressed. All data resulting from this project will be posted on line at the Bohart Museum website, http://bohart.ucdavis.edu/ and shared with IDigBio, https://www.idigbio.org/, ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Additional information about the Bohart Museum and its outreach activities is available at http://bohart.ucdavis.edu/.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349404","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349404","cyan_tree","Collaborative Research CBSR: Natural History: The Preservation, Digitization, and Data Basing of the Tardigrade Collection at the Bohart Museum of Entomology"
"1356751","Collaborative Research: ABI Development: Kurator: A Provenance-enabled Workflow Platform and Toolkit to Curate Biodiversity Data","DBI","ADVANCES IN BIO INFORMATICS|CI REUSE|CROSS-EF ACTIVITIES","9/1/2014","8/11/2014","Bertram Ludaescher","IL","University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign","Standard Grant","Peter H. McCartney","8/31/2017","$748,931.00 ","James Macklin","ludaesch@illinois.edu","SUITE A","CHAMPAIGN","IL","SUITE A, CHAMPAIGN, IL","618207473","2173332187","BIO","1165|6892|7275","7433|9179","$0.00 ","The University of Illinois Urbana Champaign and Harvard University are awarded grants to develop software tools for scientific data digitization, sharing, integration and use. The considerable challenge to digitizing natural science collections in the U.S. (and globally) necessitate a focus on both digitization efficiencies and the utility of the generated data. This grant will develop a novel, extensible, open source toolkit (Kurator) for automated and semi-automated workflows with diverse curation services to aid biodiversity research and beyond. This project will enhance discovery and understanding while promoting teaching, training and learning. A postdoctoral fellow will be trained in provenance enhanced workflow technology and contribute to Kurator design and implementation. Principles of data management curation with a focus on provenance will be taught in undergraduate and graduate courses. This project will also enhance infrastructure for research and education through collaborations with iDigBio and the Encyclopedia of Life. Educational modules and outreach activities on data quality and data curation will be developed for undergraduates and high school educators. Several Thematic Collection Networks will provide data via iDigBio for testing to insure dissemination of high quality data. Critical community authority files that do not have associated web services will be made available to the greater community as Kurator actors and services. <br/><br/>Kurator will consist of a user friendly web interface for users to configure and launch workflows while maintaining provenance, and a workflow platform for rapid development of new curation services and workflow variants. The latter will also be used to ""wrap"" valuable domain authority files that are not currently available as services. New ""curator-in-the-loop"" workflow technology allows us to directly involve experts in semi automatic curation pipelines, using human interaction actors via FilteredPush, other syndication methods, and discovery environments. Kurator will allow examination of data lineages to facilitate the assessment of credibility, supports repeatability in publication, informs legal proceedings where data are regulated, and provides context for feedback to a given resource. Kurator will facilitate digitization efforts through custom processing of raw data obtained from hardcopy specimen labels against existing services, including taxonomic name resolution, georeferencing, and duplicate specimen detection, as well as newly created customizable actors for appropriate controlled vocabularies to clean the data. Where required, semi-automated services can invoke expert review using annotation services and existing discovery environments. Curation pipelines can be integrated with other workflows for analysis of ecological, evolutionary, phenological, genomic and related data, can be shared or repurposed easily, and can be made accessible for publication.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1356751","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1356751","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: ABI Development: Kurator: A Provenance-enabled Workflow Platform and Toolkit to Curate Biodiversity Data"
"1349397","Collaborative Research - CBSR: Natural History: The Preservation, Digitizing, and Data Basing of the Tardigrade Collection at Bohart Museum, UC Davis.","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2014","9/8/2015","Carl Johansson","CA","Fresno City College","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2017","$200,691.00 ","Lynn Kimsey","birdbrain13@gmail.com","1101 University Avenue","Fresno","CA","1101 University Avenue, Fresno, CA","937410002","5594424600","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Tardigrades, or water bears, are microscopic animals that live in the ocean and on land in aquatic or otherwise wet places. Currently there are about 1,150 described species, with new ones being discovered annually. They have sausage-shaped bodies, with 8 legs ending in long claws. Water bears are unique because they can enter a state of 'suspended life' called cryptobiosis as their habitat dries out. In this stage, they can tolerate extreme conditions of cold, heat, vacuum, and pressure. Water bears may remain in this condition for many years until moisture returns allowing them to continue on with their lives. For a long time few scientists studied tardigrades because they were thought to have little economic or health value that were important to humans. However, their ability to suspend life is now being studied as a way to extend the 'shelf life' of organs harvested for transplant. It has also been discovered that in this suspended state water bears may be dispersed by wind carrying plant disease-causing bacteria, and that as a result they may be responsible for the spread of some crop diseases. The medical and industrial applications of this biology plus the disease issues make it critical to understand the global distribution of water bear species and to develop an up-to-date taxonomic framework to facilitate this work. <br/><br/>Water bear research necessarily starts with museum collections. The largest North American collection is housed in the Bohart Museum of Entomology. Most of this 35,000 slide collection was acquired in the 1960-70s, and was prepared according to the best practices of the time. Unfortunately, best practices of the time meant using non-archival mounting media, which degrades over time. As a result the specimens are rapidly deteriorating. In addition, the taxonomy of the specimens has not been updated since the 1970's and they have not been databased. To address these issues, this project seeks to stabilize, repair and restore the specimens mounting them in archival quality media, image each specimen and upload the images and associated metadata on-line and integrate all data with iDigBio. The project will also train undergraduates at Fresno City College and UC Davis in the processes of preparation, repair, documentation, and data entry of large-scale collections. Initially, type and voucher specimens will be remounted - after the process has been perfected with duplicate specimens of non-type material - following lessons learned during a similar project on another group of arthropods, parasitoid wasps. Following this initial phase all other non-type specimens will be addressed. All data resulting from this project will be posted on line at the Bohart Museum website, http://bohart.ucdavis.edu/ and shared with IDigBio, https://www.idigbio.org/, ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Additional information about the Bohart Museum and its outreach activities is available at http://bohart.ucdavis.edu/.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349397","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349397","cyan_tree","Collaborative Research - CBSR: Natural History: The Preservation, Digitizing, and Data Basing of the Tardigrade Collection at Bohart Museum, UC Davis."
"1561280","CSBR: Natural History: Making a large impact on a small herbarium: Integration of un-accessioned and orphaned specimens to secure and promote wider use of the collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/1/2016","7/20/2016","John Schenk","GA","Georgia Southern University Research and Service Foundation, Inc","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2018","$161,407.00 ","","jschenk@georgiasouthern.edu","261 Forest Drive","Statesboro","GA","261 Forest Drive, Statesboro, GA","304588005","9124785465","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Herbaria are irreplaceable repositories of botanical diversity that catalog the occurrence of plants in the past and present. These collections serve as a foundation in plant science and science policy, especially those serving rural communities. In this setting, herbaria are especially important data sources because land managers require information on native and introduced species, as well as the effects of rapidly changing species assemblages. While serving the larger scientific community, regional herbaria also serve local residents, farmers, private and government policy makers, and land managers more specifically and thoroughly. It is therefore vital that herbaria accurately represent the past and present plant diversity. The Georgia Southern University (GSU) Herbarium holds 21,127 catalogued specimens and is housed in a state-of-the-art building. However, an estimated 26,500 vascular plant specimens (55.6% of the collection) are unorganized and in need of curation and integration to fulfill their scientific value and use. Most of this un-accessioned material comes from the Georgian Coastal Plain, a relatively poorly sampled region that harbors many rare and endangered species. This award will allow GSU to integrate two recently acquired orphaned collections and other backlogged specimens, doubling the GSU Herbarium's holdings and assure the security of an invaluable scientific collection for future generations. Through this project, these specimens will be mounted onto herbarium sheets and data about the collections will be digitized, which will improve and secure the collection for research and education over the long-term. Furthermore, the facility will be updated with the necessary tools to provide researchers and students access to the most comprehensive collection of plant diversity in the region through loans, visits, and online databases.<br/><br/>The GSU Herbarium has 21,127 accessioned specimens, but an estimated 26,500 specimens documenting the regional diversity of southeastern Georgian Coastal Plain, including rare species, collections from sparsely sampled areas, and the orphaned Youth Museum of Savannah Herbarium and the Flora of Fort Stewart, are inaccessible for research and education. This impedes efforts to integrate contemporary collections, reorganize the collection, integrate nomenclatural changes, and other educational outreach initiatives, generating an urgent need to process the backlogged collection. The project will integrate un-accessioned specimens into the main collection by transferring collection book information into label data. Specimens will be mounted and filed, and the label data uploaded into existing online database repositories to increase their dissemination and use. In addition, reorganization and nomenclatural updates will secure the collection for future use and facilitate access. The award will greatly enhance and secure a unique, historically significant collection that documents the exceptional plant diversity of the Coastal Plain. Active-learning modules will be created to engage high school and freshman college students, while integrating STEM education. The award will further allow the Herbarium to engage and train GSU's diverse student community by participating in a mentored learning environment and gain experience crucial to pursuing STEM careers by actively assisting in curatorial practices. Results can be viewed on the GSU Herbarium's website (sites.google.com/a/georgiasouthern.edu/gasherbarium/home) and data will be shared and made available through iDigBio (www. idigbio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561280","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561280","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Making a large impact on a small herbarium: Integration of un-accessioned and orphaned specimens to secure and promote wider use of the collection"
"1304933","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2013","7/20/2013","Kenneth Karol","NY","New York Botanical Garden","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$694,370.00 ","Kerry Barringer, Richard McCourt, Tatyana Livshultz","kkarol@nybg.org","2900 Southern Blvd","Bronx","NY","2900 Southern Blvd, Bronx, NY","104585126","7188178840","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","This award will support investigators from a consortium of 50 herbaria at universities, botanical gardens, and natural history museums across the U.S. to digitize their collections of macroalgae. When they have finished, high resolution images and information about when and where each specimen was collected will be openly accessible for more than a million specimens through the consortium's web portal and the iDigBio web resource. Macroalgae are the foundation of marine, estuarine and freshwater benthic ecosystems providing food, substrata and protection for a myriad of other aquatic organisms. Many macroalgal species are sensitive to environmental change. The data provided through the portal will allow researchers and the public at large determine how macroalgal biodiversity and our aquatic ecosystems have changed over the past 150 years as a result of climate change, bioinvasions, and a wide range of human activity. <br/><br/>A number of macroalgal species, including kelp, nori, and others are grown extensively via aquaculture or harvested from the wild for human food and for extraction of colloids used in cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. The consortium's web portal will provide opportunities for the public to learn about the economic and ecological importance of macroalgae. Tools will be provided for citizen scientists to contribute to the project by helping transcribe some of the ancillary details from specimen labels into the database. Interactive exhibits and educational modules will be developed by the education departments of the museums in the consortium where hundreds of thousands of visitors will experience them each year. The project will also provide integrative training in collections and informatics research for undergraduate and graduate students through participation in the digitization effort and through internships at one of the museums. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304933","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304933","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment"
"1458281","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Rehabilitation and digitization of a significant collection of amphibians, reptiles, and fishes through institutional networking","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/15/2015","7/15/2016","Lee Fitzgerald","TX","Texas A&M AgriLife Research","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$204,432.00 ","Kevin Conway, Heather Prestridge, Richard Kazmaier, Toby Hibbitts","lfitzgerald@tamu.edu","2147 TAMU","College Station","TX","2147 TAMU, College Station, TX","778453000","9794584383","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","This award will support the transfer a collection of reptiles, amphibians, and fishes from West Texas A&M University (WTAMU) to the Biodiversity Research and Teaching Collections (BRTC) at Texas A&M University (TAMU). The WTAMU collection consists of more than 15,100 amphibian and reptile specimens and ca. 30,000 fish specimens. It is in danger of being lost, but has great scientific importance. The WTAMU collection contains holdings from West and North Texas that fill gaps in knowledge of species distributions. An outcome of the project will be a properly curated teaching and regional reference collection at WTAMU for use in zoology courses and by natural resource agencies. Graduates from WTAMU are employed as biologists for these agencies, with the expectation of skills at specimen identification. Linkages created during this project will enhance the usefulness of both WTAMU and BRTC collections.<br/><br/>The BRTC is an appropriate repository for the WTAMU collections. The BRTC Division of Amphibians and Reptiles (101,000 specimens) is 12th largest in the USA and fully georeferenced. The Division of Fishes (660,000 individual specimens, catalogued across 44,565 lots) ranks 20th in size, is online and is 80 percent georeferenced. A unique feature of the WTAMU collection is that sympatric fishes, amphibians and other reptiles were collected during studies of ecology and conservation of turtles. It contains at least 2,060 freshwater turtles representing 34 genera and 14 genera represented by more than 5 specimens each. There are 719 specimens of map turtles in the genus Graptemys, including 312 specimens of the endangered Cagle's map turtle, G. caglei. The project will support two graduate students and multiple undergraduate workers who will gain extensive curatorial experience and understanding of the importance of collections. With this project, new material will be incorporated into outreach activities through the Texas Master Naturalist Program, Project Wild, Flying Wild, Science and Civics, and the Leopold Education Project. Data from these collections will be made available on local, national, and international biodiversity data resources, including VertNet, the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, and iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and the public.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458281","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458281","cyan_tree","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Rehabilitation and digitization of a significant collection of amphibians, reptiles, and fishes through institutional networking"
"1458192","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Miocene Colombian Vertebrates and Conservation of the Duke Lemur Center Fossil Collections","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/1/2015","8/15/2016","Gregg Gunnell","NC","Duke University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2018","$384,307.00 ","Richard Kay, Douglas Boyer","gregg.gunnell@duke.edu","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710","Durham","NC","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710, Durham, NC","277054010","9196843030","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Fossils document the existence of previous life forms on Earth. By studying their attributes and distribution across the world and through time, we gain understanding of the ever-evolving nature of the Earth and the responses of organisms to climate change and habitat disturbance. Understanding the fossil record can guide present and future conservation efforts and help develop policies that promote healthy ecosystems, a crucial factor for human survival. For these reasons it is critical that fossils and other natural history collections be safely stored and managed to assure open access to these resources for scientists, educators, students, and the general public. The work proposed here consists of packing and moving a large collection of South American fossils to the Duke Lemur Center Division of Fossil Primates (DFP) to ensure its long-term preservation. This collection includes important primate fossils that will be inventoried, cataloged, and digitally archived, along with all locality and collection data. The project will provide full and open access of the entire collection to researchers and the public through a ""virtual museum"" framework. Many aspects of this work will involve the participation of local North Carolina high school students as well as Duke University undergraduate and graduate students.<br/><br/>This project will secure the fossil primates and associated faunal elements housed in the DFP, a collection of vertebrates from the Late Eocene-Early Oligocene of Egypt (38 to 29 Ma), the early Miocene of Egypt (19.5 Ma), and the latest Pleistocene-Holocene from Madagascar (500 to 15,000 BP). The project will also transfer an important and complementary Middle Miocene collection from La Venta, Colombia to the DFP. The Colombian collection is under imminent risk of displacement and destruction. The fossil primate collections at DFP are critical for testing hypotheses concerning how and when modern groups appeared in time and space. DFP collections enhance study of species diversity and extinction in relation to climate and habitat change. Past events can inform present conservation efforts as living non-human primates become more critically endangered. Open access to 3D renderings and models of DFP specimens will catalyze hypothesis-driven research focused on primate evolution. All updated specimen and georeferenced locality information will be made available for online searches as part of an updated and redesigned DFP website (http://www.fossils.duke.edu/) and will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. For additional information see http://lemur.duke.edu/discover/division-of-fossil-primates/ and http://morphosource.org/.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458192","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458192","cyan_tree","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Miocene Colombian Vertebrates and Conservation of the Duke Lemur Center Fossil Collections"
"1458139","CSBR: Natural History: Securing and Digitizing Data for Parasite Biodiversity Specimens in the Manter Laboratory","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/15/2015","7/15/2016","Scott Gardner","NE","University of Nebraska-Lincoln","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2018","$499,991.00 ","Gabor Racz, Donald Gettinger","slg@unl.edu","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier","Lincoln","NE","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier, Lincoln, NE","685031435","4024723171","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","The goal of this project is to make data associated with the H.W. Manter Laboratory (HWML) more readily available to the scientific community, as well as to facilitate long-term security and conservation of its specimens. These important collections contribute to the ability of scientists in the USA to predict emerging diseases, understand global environmental changes, and enable responses to these threats to the national security by scientists and policymakers. Donated by top-ranked research scientists, four collections of parasites are being integrated into the HWML. These contain important knowledge of the biodiversity of parasites and their hosts, and this work will allow the HWML to database, conserve, and repair a large number of specimens that have remained un-catalogued (and unknown) for many years. The McDonald collection incorporates helminths from migratory waterfowl of the central North American flyway; the Wilson collection contains both identified and unidentified ectoparasites collected worldwide; the Hargis marine platyhelminth collection holds specimens from the Antarctic, Gulf of Mexico, and southern oceans; and the Telford hemoparasite slide collection holds parasites collected from reptiles worldwide. <br/><br/>The primary objectives of this project include converting an existing but outdated database, PARASITE, into a modern relational database system (Arctos, a multiuser online database for natural history and biodiversity collections), which will then be the HWML's main database, enabling scientists world-wide to query the collections for both digital images and data. Arctos will permit users to simultaneously target both vertebrate host collections and the parasites of these hosts - a capability currently unavailable in PARASITE. Such relational queries are essential to enable a complete picture of host/parasite biodiversity to research scientists working in many different fields. In coordination with the digitization effort, all specimens in four key parasite collections which are the last remaining backlogged sections of uncataloged specimens in the HWML will be repaired, or marked for future repair, and transfered into permanent-secure physical storage. All data resulting from this project will be posted online (http://hwml.unl.edu/) and shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458139","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458139","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Securing and Digitizing Data for Parasite Biodiversity Specimens in the Manter Laboratory"
"1458108","Integration of Two Large Orphaned Lichen Collections into the Oregon State University Herbarium","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/1/2015","2/28/2016","Aaron Liston","OR","Oregon State University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2018","$429,529.00 ","Bruce McCune, Joseph Spatafora, David Giblin","listona@science.oregonstate.edu","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY","Corvallis","OR","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY, Corvallis, OR","973318507","5417374933","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","The Oregon State University (OSU) Herbarium is a major regional collection of approximately 425,000 specimens of plants and fungi. It is an actively growing and heavily utilized research herbarium, and is the primary resource for the documentation and study of Oregon's diverse plants and fungi. This project will enable the addition of approximately 220,000 lichen specimens permanently transferred from the USDA Forest Service (USFS). These specimens were collected as part of the USFS Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) and Air Resource Management programs. They comprise a unique and voluminous source of data and specimens not available in regular herbarium collections. The extensive, fine-grained sampling framework for the FIA program provides an exceptional basis for species distribution modeling, phylogeography, and measuring biological responses to environmental change. The need to secure these specimens is urgent because they are currently housed in non-archival conditions and are inaccessible to researchers. Incorporating the USFS specimens into the OSU Herbarium will protect them for the future by virtue of OSU's commitment to long-term preservation and use of biological collections. In addition, a popular educational resource developed at OSU for learning about lichens (http://ocid.nacse.org/lichenland) will be revitalized and enhanced as part of this project.<br/><br/>To accommodate the USFS lichen collections, 54 steel herbarium cases will be added to the OSU Herbarium. The lichen specimen labels will be photographed in order to capture information that is not maintained in the FIA and Air Resource Management electronic databases. The specimens will then be repackaged in archival materials, organized taxonomically, and integrated into the OSU Herbarium. Specimen label data and images will be made available online via the Consortium of Pacific Northwest Herbaria (http://www.pnwherbaria.org) which is based at the University of Washington Herbarium, Burke Museum of Natural History and Culture, and with the digitization HUB iDigBio. More information about the OSU Herbarium and this project is available at: http://oregonstate.edu/dept/botany/herbarium.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458108","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458108","cyan_tree","Integration of Two Large Orphaned Lichen Collections into the Oregon State University Herbarium"
"1458290","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Essential Improvements for the Arthur Fungarium at Purdue University","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Mary Aime","IN","Purdue University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2018","$289,045.00 ","","maime@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","An award is made to Purdue University to support the 125 year-old Arthur Fungarium, which houses ca. 110,000 specimens of plant rust fungi and their hosts. Holdings span more than 250 years and 171 countries and include more than 4,000 type specimens. The collection includes specimens collected during the first around the world voyage of Captain James Cook, as well as specimens collected by famed American scientist George Washington Carver. This project will assist with repatriation of 25,000 recently returned specimens and provide long-term collection security. The project will provide curatorial support for reorganization and damage assessment of the collection, as well as internship opportunities for students interested in herbarium/curatorial/museum sciences. In addition, societal benefits include workshops, exhibits, and improved digital data access for scientists, educators, students, and members of the general public to this important resource.<br/><br/>This project seeks to perform critical improvements for the Arthur Fungarium (PUR), which after an 18 year lapse in curatorial activity, is now being revitalized through reinvestments by the Department of Botany and Plant Pathology at Purdue University. The Arthur Fungarium is unique as a global resource, and this project will help to return it to its former status as the premier institution in the world for the study of rust fungi (Pucciniales) and their host plants. Not only are the data and specimens at PUR of importance for the study of rust fungi, but they are doubly valuable in that they also preserve material and data for all host specimens (across the breadth of vascular plants), further broadening the use and impact of this collection. This project will address an urgent need for reorganization of the collections within the Arthur, both in keeping with new taxonomic principles, but especially to safeguard and accommodate ca. 25,000 recently repatriated specimens. Specific goals include performing a curatorial upgrade, including repairs and reorganization of the collections; safeguarding, databasing, and reintegrating the repatriated material; complete barcoding and databasing of the entire holdings of PUR (including capture of host data); and increasing public and scientific awareness of the Arthur Fungarium collection. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and the public.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458290","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458290","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Essential Improvements for the Arthur Fungarium at Purdue University"
"1458151","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Curation, Digitization, Integration, and On-Line Access of Two Exceptional Invertebrate Fossil Research Collections","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Michal Kowalewski","FL","University of Florida","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2017","$184,557.00 ","Douglas Jones, Roger Portell","mkowalewski@flmnh.ufl.edu","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA","GAINESVILLE","FL","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE, FL","326112002","3523923516","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","This project seeks funding to salvage two unique collections and permanently house them in the Invertebrate Paleontology Division of the Florida Museum of Natural History (FLMNH). These collections were no longer afforded adequate storage at their home institutions. The larger of the two is an exceptional, nationally unique inventory of fossil micro-mollusks. The second collection is composed of critical reference specimens used originally to develop a powerful technique for numerical age dating of fossils (the amino acid racemization method). Both collections will be used extensively in research, education, and training of a new generation of scientists. Diverse audiences will benefit directly from two new exhibits developed using these collections. Additionally, two identification guides will be produced and 1,500 specimen images will be made available through on-line portals and the FLMNH's image galleries. The project will involve hands-on training of undergraduate interns, result in newsletter articles and talks to local groups, and contribute important specimens to public exhibits at the FLMNH and elsewhere.<br/><br/>This project seeks to curate, digitize, and publish data from two unique invertebrate fossil collections recently acquired by the Florida Museum of Natural History (FLMNH). The first collection (~30,000 lots) was assembled by Lyle Campbell (University of South Carolina, Upstate) during 40 years of fieldwork in Cenozoic deposits of Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia. The collection is a nationally unique scientific resource representing a taxonomically diverse bio-inventory of micro-mollusks. The second collection (~3,000 lots) was assembled by John Wehmiller (University of Delaware) over the past 35 years during the development of amino acid racemization (AAR) dating methods. Both collections will be integrated into the Specify 6.6, a relational database that unifies all FLMNH paleontological and neontological specimen collections. The project will make two significant collections readily available to the global research community, thus providing a stimulus for research. The collection of numerous, rare, and undescribed species of micro-mollusks, severely underrepresented in FLMNH's holdings, will be of broad value to malacologists and paleontologists. This collection is particularly valuable for filling gaps in the fossil record (e.g., tropical Paleogene) and are uniquely suitable for quantitative macro-ecological studies (e.g., ecological niche modeling). The second collection contains key reference materials for geochronological studies needed to validate past research findings and assist Quaternary geochronologists with the development of new dating strategies. Upon completion, the project will result in novel high-quality data on spatial and temporal distribution of Cenozoic invertebrates. These records will be fully integrated into existing data networks (e.g., iDigBio, GBIF, PBDB, and Earth Cube).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458151","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458151","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Curation, Digitization, Integration, and On-Line Access of Two Exceptional Invertebrate Fossil Research Collections"
"1458198","CSBR:Natural History: Critical infrastructure upgrades and expanded digital access to Non-vertebrate Paleontology Collections at the University of Texas at Austin","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Ann Molineux","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2018","$495,880.00 ","Rowan Martindale","annm@austin.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","An award is made to the University of Texas (UT) at Austin for infrastructure upgrades and support for expanded digital access to the Non-vertebrate Paleontology Collections. The funding will alleviate pressure for storage space within this collection located on the Pickle Research Campus of UT. Transfer of specimens from the main campus has stressed the capacity of current storage to critical levels that significantly hinder access and specimen retrieval. Direct user access is vital to ensure that materials remain easily available for on-going and future research, education, and public outreach. This project will address many of these issues. It will facilitate cabinet upgrades, specimen security, and expanded digital access to irreplaceable fossil collections, especially those currently housed without climate control. Specimens include rare historic material, extirpated or extinct species, collections from now inaccessible localities, fossils from the geologic mapping of Texas, thesis and dissertation samples, paleobotanical collections, a unique Holocene marine, land snail and mussel collection, a genotypic mollusc collection, and several orphaned collections. New archival cabinets will provide more efficient space usage, and are a vital step in the progression to fully compacted climate-controlled space when additional funding permits. The physical structure of the cabinets combined with climate curtaining will prevent contamination by pests and pollution, buffer swings in temperature and humidity, and improve security. Public interest and education, furthered through innovative web and mobile applications, will be expanded through a variety of social media. <br/><br/>During the project implementation, most specimens will be passed through a freeze/thaw cycle to kill insects and larvae prior to their transfer to new cabinets. All transfer activity will be tracked via a linked geographic information system (GIS) to a database (Specify6) and web interface; collections will remain digitally accessible during the project by leveraging whole-drawer imagery, which could not be achieved without the previous deployments of an effective GIS and imaging as part of the ongoing inventory process. The project continues an institutional strategy to conserve important collections in the repository and to make high resolution 2-D, and now 3-D, digital surrogates available for collaborative research. All specimens will be imaged in full-drawer context, and individual specimens captured with their historic labels as an added resource. Refinement of the web connectivity between repository map, database, and images will enable remote access for potential teaching specimens and research resources. Virtual specimens and related data will be available for query and download, retaining flexibility to explore these off-site collections in a variety of contexts, including taxonomy, geology, and global paleogeography. Locality coordinates, corrected for plate tectonic movement, will be provided for both spatial and temporal analysis of data. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/) and the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF), ensuring accessibility to researchers and the public.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458198","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458198","cyan_atom","CSBR:Natural History: Critical infrastructure upgrades and expanded digital access to Non-vertebrate Paleontology Collections at the University of Texas at Austin"
"1602081","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Neil Cobb","AZ","Northern Arizona University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$563,569.00 ","Ben Brandt","neil.cobb@nau.edu","ARD Building #56, Suite 240","Flagstaff","AZ","ARD Building #56, Suite 240, Flagstaff, AZ","860110001","9285230886","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1602081","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1602081","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601884","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Susan Butts","CT","Yale University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$350,367.00 ","Christopher Norris","susan.butts@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601884","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601884","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1601443","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Lynn Kimsey","CA","University of California-Davis","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$232,511.00 ","","lskimsey@ucdavis.edu","OR/Sponsored Programs","Davis","CA","OR/Sponsored Programs, Davis, CA","956186134","5307547700","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601443","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601443","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601878","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Corinne Myers","NM","University of New Mexico","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$157,377.00 ","","cemyers@unm.edu","1700 Lomas Blvd. NE, Suite 2200","Albuquerque","NM","1700 Lomas Blvd. NE, Suite 2200, Albuquerque, NM","871310001","5052774186","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601878","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601878","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1600774","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Derek Sikes","AK","University of Alaska Fairbanks Campus","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$90,708.00 ","","dssikes@alaska.edu","West Ridge Research Bldg 008","Fairbanks","AK","West Ridge Research Bldg 008, Fairbanks, AK","997757880","9074747301","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600774","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600774","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601944","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Laura Wilson","KS","Fort Hays State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$116,266.00 ","","lewilson6@fhsu.edu","600 Park Street","Hays","KS","600 Park Street, Hays, KS","676014009","7856284349","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601944","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601944","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1601124","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Naomi Pierce","MA","Harvard University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$179,204.00 ","","npierce@oeb.harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601124","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601124","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1503628","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific. Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Peter Roopnarine","CA","California Academy of Sciences","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$530,256.00 ","","proopnarine@calacademy.org","55 Music Concourse Drive","San Francisco","CA","55 Music Concourse Drive, San Francisco, CA","941184503","4153795146","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503628","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503628","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific. Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1503613","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Patrick Druckenmiller","AK","University of Alaska Fairbanks Campus","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$59,659.00 ","","psdruckenmiller@alaska.edu","West Ridge Research Bldg 008","Fairbanks","AK","West Ridge Research Bldg 008, Fairbanks, AK","997757880","9074747301","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503613","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503613","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1502500","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Elizabeth Nesbitt","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$203,609.00 ","","lnesbitt@u.washington.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1502500","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1502500","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1561469","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Integration of a Collection of Reptiles and Fishes into the LSU Museum of Natural Science.","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/1/2016","6/14/2016","Prosanta Chakrabarty","LA","Louisiana State University & Agricultural and Mechanical College","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2019","$362,449.00 ","Christopher Austin","prosanta@lsu.edu","202 Himes Hall","Baton Rouge","LA","202 Himes Hall, Baton Rouge, LA","708032701","2255782760","BIO","1197","9150","$0.00 ","The Louisiana State University Museum of Natural Science (LSUMNS) is one of the largest and most active research oriented natural history museums in the United States. The LSUMNS is reputed internationally for its documentation of biodiversity and its support of cutting edge research. This reputation has made LSUMNS the premier public institution in Louisiana for the deposition of specimens documenting the biodiversity of the state and region. To accomplish this the university has invested in facilities to house and secure the collections. A recent acquisition of over 40,000 amphibian, reptile and fish specimens by the museum takes advantage of this investment. This project funds the utilization of renovated space at LSUMNS, allowing for the consolidation of all vertebrate collections in the same building with modern facilities for specimen storage, preserving this biodiversity repository for posterity. The specimens to be incorporated include one of the largest collections of turtles in the world, and a large number of Gulf of Mexico fishes collected prior to the 2010 oil spill. Plans are to digitize specimens and integrate these data into online resources, making these collections available to national and international researchers. Outreach and educational opportunities will engage undergraduate and graduate students from diverse backgrounds through collaboration with existing programs at the museum. Students will be trained in modern digitization methods, curatorial methods and the use of social media for public outreach. <br/><br/>The goal of this project is to incorporate a recently acquired collection of fishes, reptile and amphibian specimens into the collections of the LSU Museum of Natural Science. The amphibian and reptile collection were acquired from Tulane University. LSU has provided additional space to house the collections and has committed to the support of a collections manager to help integrate these important specimens into the museum's collections. Plans are to install mobile compactor shelving, new storage tanks and racks to fully and efficiently integrate the specimens into the renovated space. The high-density storage system will also provide room for future growth of the collection. The investigator also plans on digitization of these specimens to increase their accessibility to the community. The digitized collections data will be shared with and made available online through iDigBio (www.idigbio.org). The project will collaborate with existing education and outreach programs at the LSU Museum for public outreach and in the training of undergraduate and graduate students.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561469","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561469","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Integration of a Collection of Reptiles and Fishes into the LSU Museum of Natural Science."
"1561774","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Housing, Databasing, Digitizing and Accessibility Upgrades to the Largest Pacific Island Land Snail Collection (Bishop Museum)","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/15/2016","8/12/2016","Norine Yeung","HI","Bernice P Bishop Museum","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$180,777.00 ","Kenneth Hayes","nyeung@hawaii.edu","1525 Bernice Street","Honolulu","HI","1525 Bernice Street, Honolulu, HI","968172704","8088478204","BIO","1197","9150|1197","$0.00 ","Islands comprise only five percent of the Earth's landmass, yet nowhere in the world, in relation to land area, does land snail diversity compare to that of the Pacific Islands, where more than 6,000 species occur. However, habitat destruction, environmental change and incursions by invasive species threaten populations of native land snails. Snails have the highest recorded extinction rate of any major animal group, and the majority of extinctions are from Pacific Islands. The largest Pacific Island land snail collection in the world is at the Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum (BPBM), which houses six million specimens. Natural history collections are critical to maintain research knowledge and to making decisions about biodiversity conservation. To secure this collection and improve accessibility to critical data for researchers, natural resource managers, students, and the public, this project will rehouse land snail specimens in environmentally stable and protective containers, image all original specimens from which species descriptions are based, and digitize all collection data so as to make these data readily available. The project team will recruit and train college and high school students to assist with this work and students will receive training in topics ranging from systematics to curation and museum conservation. Researchers and students will participate in outreach activities to increase public awareness of invertebrates, including land snails, their importance to natural ecosystems, and for monitoring environmental change, human migration and trade; and in the value of natural history collections to conserving and securing biodiversity.<br/><br/>The security and accessibility of the largest and most biogeographically diverse Pacific Island land snail collection in the world will be ensured by completing the objectives of the project. Specifically, to safeguard against Byne's and glass disease, all cotton will be removed from the approximately 116,900 glass vials and replaced with polyethylene caps or archival foam. Approximately 5,000 lots with shells housed freely in no-lid boxes will be transferred to polystyrene friction boxes to secure them and prevent disassociation from labels. All labels are currently handwritten and these will be replaced by thermal transfer, acid-free labels with QR codes. Data from the ledger, labels, and other historical documents will be digitized, digitally curated, and images of Pacific island land snail primary types will be made available online and in type catalog publications. Specimen data and images will be made available through portals including iDigBio (idigbio.org), the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, and the BPBM website (bishopmuseum.org/PILS).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561774","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561774","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Housing, Databasing, Digitizing and Accessibility Upgrades to the Largest Pacific Island Land Snail Collection (Bishop Museum)"
"1561448","CSBR: Natural History: Rehabilitation and Revitalization of the Purdue Entomological Research Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/1/2016","7/20/2016","Jennifer Zaspel","IN","Purdue University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$179,663.00 ","Luke Jacobus, Eugenio Nearns","jzaspel@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","The Purdue Entomological Research Collection (PERC), an active research unit within the Department of Entomology at Purdue University, houses the largest and most important collection of arthropods in Indiana, estimated at about two million specimens. Over the last 120 years, the PERC has acquired numerous historical insect collections of great significance to the entomology community, including thousands of unique reference specimens, and a world-class collection of aquatic insects. This project will update the existing storage systems in the collection to ensure they are preserved for future research and education. In addition, specimen images and associated data will be stored in an online database freely available to the public. Training will be provided on proper preservation of entomological specimens and natural history collections to junior researchers, and undergraduate students, as well as underrepresented groups. This project will raise awareness of the importance of insects and natural history collections through various public engagement activities, aquatic ecosystem workshops, and rural community youth programs. <br/><br/>The PERC's holdings include the world's largest and most comprehensive collection of mayflies (Ephemeroptera), as well as several important historical collections, including damselflies and dragonflies (Odonata), aquatic beetles (Coleoptera), and North American bees (Hymenoptera). The PERC also serves as a repository for various Indiana Survey projects and other voucher material, and houses over 2,200 primary and secondary type specimens. Despite the importance of its holdings, the PERC has remained underutilized by, and in some cases inaccessible to, scientists, students, and water managers outside of Purdue. This project will address these problems by updating the curatorial standards and expanding the specimen database. Specific goals include transferring improperly stored specimens into modern drawers and cabinets, integration of recently collected specimens for molecular work, updating the current slide storage system, reorganizing and ethanol-preserved collections. PERC specimen data will be shared and made available online through iDigBio (www.idigbio.org); PERC's mayfly data will also be made available through the Mayfly Central website (www.entm.purdue.edu/mayfly/). Additional information can be found at the official PERC website (www.entm.purdue.edu/perc/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561448","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561448","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Rehabilitation and Revitalization of the Purdue Entomological Research Collection"
"1256742","ARTS: Phylogeny and systematic revision of the diverse and cryptic Euptychiina (Lepidoptera, Nymphalidae, Satyrinae)","DEB","Biodiversity: Discov &Analysis","4/1/2013","4/30/2015","Keith Willmott","FL","University of Florida","Continuing grant","Simon Malcomber","3/31/2018","$470,604.00 ","Jacqueline Miller, Akito Kawahara","kwillmott@flmnh.ufl.edu","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA","GAINESVILLE","FL","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE, FL","326112002","3523923516","BIO","1198","7375|9169|EGCH|1355|9178|9251|SMET|7744","$0.00 ","The diverse butterfly subtribe Euptychiina contains more than 400 species in Central and South American habitats ranging from rainforest to cerrado. Hundreds of thousands of euptychiine specimens in natural history museum collections hold untapped data for studies in many fields, but almost half of all specimens are difficult to confidently identify. At least 20% of species have no scientific name and 65% of genera are invalid. This project has 5 main goals: (1) to combine morphological and DNA data to produce a comprehensive evolutionary hypothesis for the subtribe and define genera; (2) to revise the classification for 9 genera containing 159 species (35 to be named), and to name an additional 21+ species in other Euptychiina genera; (3) to train butterfly researchers at the University of Florida and at the University of Campinas, Brazil; (4) to test hypotheses about Euptychiina evolution; (5) and to develop collection and web-based electronic resources to facilitate future research.<br/><br/>The project will provide a reliable classification and understanding of species diversity in Euptychiina and use these to begin to investigate how these organisms diversified and what factors control their current distribution, helping to predict how changing land use and climate are likely to impact their diversity.The project will train 1 post-doctoral researcher, 3 graduate students and other university and high-school students, with special efforts to include minorities. Museum collections will be enhanced and an NSF-funded, web-based informatics platform for storage and rapid sharing of taxonomic data will be adapted for use by the team and for future butterfly researchers. The project website will provide biological data, images and publications, and data will also be available to online biodiversity initiatives such as GBIF, EoL and iDigBio where they will be freely accessible. Finally, the project will be featured for one year and to more than 200,000 visitors as a component of the Florida Museum of Natural History's ""Library of Life"" exhibit, highlighting current research at the museum.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1256742","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1256742","cyan_tree","ARTS: Phylogeny and systematic revision of the diverse and cryptic Euptychiina (Lepidoptera, Nymphalidae, Satyrinae)"
"1349111","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Cataloging and imaging the Yale Peabody Museum Invertebrate Zoology microscope slide collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/1/2014","7/5/2016","Leo Buss","CT","Yale University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2017","$498,966.00 ","Eric Lazo-Wasem","leo.buss@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","BIO","1197","9178","$0.00 ","The Yale Peabody Museum Invertebrate Zoology Division houses a collection of more than 50,000 microscope slides, created as a result of research by scientists affiliated with the museum over the last 150 years. These slides, although well curated physically, have never been cataloged and this unique resource is therefore virtually unknown and unavailable to all but a few scientists and students. The goal of this project is to raise the level of accessibility and visibility to the same standard that has been applied to the rest of the Invertebrate Zoology collection, and make the specimens and associated data available to scientists and students via the museum's searchable web interfaces. This will include digital images, generated using available microscope slide imaging technology. The resulting data and images will be used as the basis for a virtual microscopy website that will be an invaluable teaching resource for scientists, students and educators at all levels of inquiry.<br/><br/>The slide collection spans the full breadth of invertebrate taxa. For some phyla, these are the richest histological collections available anywhere in the world. This award will secure these collections and, for the first time, make them publically available for teaching, research, and public outreach. A variety of techniques (standard photography, automated focus-enhanced microscope photography, slide scanning) will be used to produce digital images of the slides, given the varied nature of the material, which is composed of whole mounts of individual specimens, three dimensional fragments of colonial forms, and histological sections. The resulting images and associated data will be served to interested parties in several ways. Searchable text data from the slides will be accessible through the Peabody Museum website, and content providers including iDigBio, the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, and the Discover Yale Digital Content portal. Slide images will be available as: (1) moderate resolution images for all slides available for zoomable browsing via the providers; and (2) a series of hi-resolution images for selected slides with annotations by experts, made freely available for students and educators through a virtual microscopy website to be developed and hosted by the Peabody Museum. More information about the museum and its collections are available at: http://peabody.yale.edu/collections/invertebrate-zoology.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349111","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349111","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Cataloging and imaging the Yale Peabody Museum Invertebrate Zoology microscope slide collection"
"1458171","CSBR Natural History: Rehousing and inventory of fluid-preserved mollusks at the Academy of Natural Sciences","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/15/2015","8/6/2015","Gary Rosenberg","PA","Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$345,105.00 ","Paul Callomon","rosenberg@ansp.org","1900 Benjamin Franklin Parkway","Philadelphia","PA","1900 Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia, PA","191031195","2152991065","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","This project will inventory more than 50,000 samples of fluid-preserved mollusks at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (ANSP). The collection is threatened by the increasing failure rate of old jar lids, which will be addressed by replacing the lids with ones made of archival materials. The collection contains about 1.5 million specimens from 140 countries. Endangered and extinct species are represented in more than 1,000 samples containing more than 200,000 specimens. Much of the fluid-preserved collection is appropriate for DNA analysis, in addition to being suitable for dissections. Ensuring that this material is properly archived and that information about is available online supports research on molluscan biology and conservation throughout the world. The project will train four undergraduate students from Drexel University in molluscan systematics, taxonomy, and curatorial techniques. Each student will work full-time for six months as a curatorial assistant at ANSP, learning conservation and preservation techniques. Students will receive an introduction to molluscan diversity and learn about the value of systematic collections for research in evolutionary and conservation biology. The general public will be introduced to the project at the annual Members' Night at ANSP, which was attended by more than 1,000 people in 2014, and at the annual Philadelphia Shell Show, which attracts about 1,500 visitors.<br/><br/>The project will rehouse in archival materials 41,000 samples from ANSP and integrate about 9,500 samples received from other institutions. Many of the jar lids in the collection are made of bakelite or steel, materials now known not to be archival for fluid preservation. When lids fail, the specimens dry out, reducing their scientific value; all non-archival lids will be replaced with archival ones. Jars will be moved from standing directly on shelves into aluminum trays, so that fluid levels can be checked by scanning entire trays rather than picking up one jar at a time. Before the advent of DNA technology, it was assumed that samples sent on loan from the fluid-preserved collection would be destroyed when they were dissected, so ANSP asked for similar material in exchange. However, it was not usually recorded when a sample had been deaccessioned for destructive sampling. Also, in some cases, the presence of an alcohol lot in addition to a dry lot was not recorded in the catalogue. Each sample will therefore be verified against its database record, yielding a current inventory of the fluid-preserved collection. A module will be added to the database to record the condition of the sample at the time of rehousing and any action taken. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Data will be made available online through the ANSP website (http://clade.ansp.org/malacology/collections/) and other portals.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458171","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458171","cyan_atom","CSBR Natural History: Rehousing and inventory of fluid-preserved mollusks at the Academy of Natural Sciences"
"1451925","CSBR: Natural History: Development of a Liquid Nitrogen System for the Genetic Resources Collection, Natural Science Research Laboratory, Museum of Texas Tech University","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2015","7/13/2016","Robert Baker","TX","Texas Tech University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2018","$323,788.00 ","Robert Bradley","robert.baker@ttu.edu","349 Administration Bldg","Lubbock","TX","349 Administration Bldg, Lubbock, TX","794091035","8067423884","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","An award is made to the Genetic Resources Collection (GRC) of the Natural Science Research Laboratory (NSRL), Museum of Texas Tech University to improve the security of its holdings through replacement of 16 mechanical -80oC freezers with a Liquid Nitrogen (-190oC) system. The samples housed at NSRL-GRC are used by researchers from around the world to address questions vital to science and society, such as advancing understanding of global biodiversity, the impact of humans on the natural world, and the transmission of disease between wildlife and humans. Each tissue sample is unique and irreplaceable, as it represents an individual at a specific point in time and space, and the samples are of unlimited actual and potential value to the science community in terms of on-going and future research. Outcomes of this project include: expanded storage capacity of the GRC, allowing for growth of the collection; education and training of graduate and undergraduate students in collection management practices; a public exhibit highlighting the significance of genetic resource collections to science and society; outreach materials for high school educators; development of a newsletter and a feature page on the NSRL website; refinement of curatorial standards; and reduced energy consumption by the transition to a green technology.<br/><br/>The primary goal of this project is to replace the GRC's current storage system of 16 mechanical freezers with five vapor-phase liquid nitrogen (LN) freezers that preserve samples at -190C. The lower temperature will ensure the integrity of the samples and preserve the entire spectrum of genomic data they contain, including molecules (RNA, viruses, bacteria, etc.) ensuring their potential to inform future research efforts. This will broaden the usage of the GRC beyond traditional disciplines, such as biodiversity and systematics, to include genomics and other developing fields of genetic, molecular, and environmental research. The project will also enable enhanced data accessibility by researchers and NSRL staff and allow for implementation of new curation procedures for GRC samples. This will be accomplished by: 1) annotating the NSRL database with genetic sequence database numbers and making those data available via data portals such as iDigBio and VertNet; 2) annotating the NSRL's internal database to indicate samples obtained from virus-positive vouchers and designate those samples with color-coded labels; and 3) identifying symbiotype and holotype genetic samples with color-coded labels. Overall, this project seeks to preserve the integrity and information content of the specimens while engaging the wider community by highlighting issues of relevance to their lives.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1451925","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1451925","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Development of a Liquid Nitrogen System for the Genetic Resources Collection, Natural Science Research Laboratory, Museum of Texas Tech University"
"1458229","CSBR: NATURAL HISTORY COLLECTIONS: TRANSFORMING ACCESSIBILITY TO THE RICH, SITE-BASED, MULTI-TAXON COLLECTION OF ARCHBOLD BIOLOGICAL STATION","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/1/2015","8/2/2016","Hilary Swain","FL","Archbold Biological Station","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2018","$449,164.00 ","Betsie Rothermel, Reed Bowman, Eric Menges, Mark Deyrup","hswain@archbold-station.org","123 Main Drive","Venus","FL","123 Main Drive, Venus, FL","339602039","8634652571","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","An award is made to the Archbold Biological Station (ABS), an internationally recognized not-for-profit biological field station in central Florida, to preserve and secure a unique, irreplaceable record of life in the Florida Scrub habitat of the Lake Wales Ridge, one of the Nation's most imperiled ecosystems. The project targets approximately 270,000 specimens including arthropods plants, mammals, birds, fish, and reptiles. Specimens will be digitized and imaged to increase online access to information about this unique collection from the Florida Scrub and surrounding environs. Activities proposed will enhance advances in the biological sciences, promote benefits to conservation, and increase educational outreach. For example, by offering more opportunities for use of the collection to inform research projects and other forms of student engagement, ABS's programs for students will be strengthened. Furthermore, information about the collection will be shared during workshops with regional land managers and ABS will increase access to teaching specimens and exhibits for K-12 students.<br/><br/>This award will allow Archbold Biological Station to curate and digitize its diverse collection. This digitization effort will improve data accessibility to researchers and educators. A major focus of this project will be the arthropod collection (specifically the ants, scrub endemics, insect-flower visitors and dead wood insects) but other taxonomic groups will also be secured. Partnering with iDigBio will enable ABS to effectively database, image and migrate specimen data to the Internet. Symbiota-linked portals will augment the ABS website, providing an excellent example of what a regional field station collection can achieve. By posting the collection data online, ABS will make available a virtually complete biodiversity record and rich ecological data, enabling studies of biodiversity in ways that would be difficult to otherwise replicate. This increase in accessibility will also benefit educators and the conservation community.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458229","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458229","cyan_tree","CSBR: NATURAL HISTORY COLLECTIONS: TRANSFORMING ACCESSIBILITY TO THE RICH, SITE-BASED, MULTI-TAXON COLLECTION OF ARCHBOLD BIOLOGICAL STATION"
"1600616","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Lawrence Gall","CT","Yale University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$178,733.00 ","","lawrence.gall@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600616","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600616","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1600937","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Boris Kondratieff","CO","Colorado State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$286,208.00 ","Paul Opler","Boris.Kondratieff@Colostate.edu","601 S Howes St","Fort Collins","CO","601 S Howes St, Fort Collins, CO","805232002","9704916355","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600937","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600937","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601888","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Christopher Marshall","OR","Oregon State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$228,549.00 ","","marshach@science.oregonstate.edu","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY","Corvallis","OR","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY, Corvallis, OR","973318507","5417374933","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601888","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601888","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601891","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Neil Landman","NY","American Museum Natural History","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$179,238.00 ","Ruth O'Leary","landman@amnh.org","Central Park West at 79th St","New York","NY","Central Park West at 79th St, New York, NY","100245192","2127695975","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601891","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601891","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1601659","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Nico Franz","AZ","Arizona State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$186,570.00 ","Melody Basham","nico.franz@asu.edu","ORSPA","TEMPE","AZ","ORSPA, TEMPE, AZ","852816011","4809655479","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601659","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601659","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601002","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Joseph McHugh","GA","University of Georgia Research Foundation Inc","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$48,623.00 ","","mchugh.jv@gmail.com","310 East Campus Rd","ATHENS","GA","310 East Campus Rd, ATHENS, GA","306021589","7065425939","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601002","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601002","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1602067","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Bruce Lieberman","KS","University of Kansas Center for Research Inc","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$336,629.00 ","James Beach, K. Christopher Beard, Maribeth Price, Laurie Anderson","blieber@ku.edu","2385 IRVING HILL RD","LAWRENCE","KS","2385 IRVING HILL RD, LAWRENCE, KS","660457568","7858643441","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1602067","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1602067","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1503545","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Edward Davis","OR","University of Oregon Eugene","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$179,819.00 ","","edavis@uoregon.edu","5219 UNIVERSITY OF OREGON","Eugene","OR","5219 UNIVERSITY OF OREGON, Eugene, OR","974035219","5413465131","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503545","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503545","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1503065","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Jann Vendetti","CA","Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History Foundation","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$606,955.00 ","","jannvendetti@yahoo.com","900 Exposition Boulevard","Los Angeles","CA","900 Exposition Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA","900074057","2137443301","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503065","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503065","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1503611","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific: Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Gregory Dietl","NY","Paleontological Research Institute","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$352,407.00 ","","gpd3@cornell.edu","1259 Trumansburg Road","Ithaca","NY","1259 Trumansburg Road, Ithaca, NY","148501313","6072736623","BIO","6895","","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503611","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503611","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific: Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1561737","CSBR: Ownership Transfer. Rescuing three imperiled Kentucky herbaria and integrating them into the Mid-South's most active herbarium at Austin Peay State University (APSC)","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2016","9/1/2016","Larry Estes","TN","Austin Peay State University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2019","$157,744.00 ","","estesl@apsu.edu","601 College Street","Clarksville","TN","601 College Street, Clarksville, TN","370440001","9312217881","BIO","1197","9150","$0.00 ","This award is made to Austin Peay State University (APSU), a mid-sized, public institution in Clarksville, TN to acquire the Western KY University (WKU) herbarium. This rescued collection will be merged with that of APSU to create a 120,000-specimen research-quality collection that will serve the multi-state region between the Appalachian and Ozark Mountains. APSU's herbarium is the primary repository for central and western TN - a region centered on the southern half of the Interior Plateaus (IP) biodiversity hotspot - one of the most diverse land-locked regions of the Northern Hemisphere. The WKU collections (68,000 specimens) represent the northern half of this diversity hotspot. The rescued WKU collection will be curated, secured and the specimens will be made accessible via online resources to scientists, conservationists, students, and the public. Simultaneously, the consolidation of the two collections will allow APSU to enhance its leadership in training field biologists through unique collections-based educational opportunities. Many of the beneficiaries of APSU's programs are women, first generation college students, low-income, and active-duty military students. These individuals will benefit from APSU's demonstrated a commitment to building a collections-based training program for research biologists, land managers, and conservationists. <br/><br/>Consolidating the APSU and WKU collections into one facility presents challenges to the existing APSU facility, which has a current maximum capacity of 117,000 specimens in 78 cabinets. The addition of WKU will immediately fill the collection with 123,000 specimens. This award will allow APSU to expand its current compactor storage system to 120 cabinets, increasing maximum storage capacity to 180,000 specimens, leaving ample room for growth from collections-based research. Additionally, funding will support a full-time collections manager, one graduate student research assistant, and three undergraduate students, all of whom will receive training in collections management and research. Full integration of the two herbaria will involve: (1) securing WKU and ensuring its long-term viability by eradicating insect pests, processing backlogged specimens, annotating specimens to updated taxonomy, and properly storing specimens in insect-proof, archival cabinets; (2) using the enlarged research-quality herbarium to enhance training and research on the understudied flora of the Interior Plateaus Ecoregion biodiversity hotspot; and (3) making specimens accessible via databasing and digitization efforts tied to existing web-based interfaces: SERNEC, iDigBio, Symbiota, and APSU (http://nhm.apsu.edu/collections/plants).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561737","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561737","cyan_tree","CSBR: Ownership Transfer. Rescuing three imperiled Kentucky herbaria and integrating them into the Mid-South's most active herbarium at Austin Peay State University (APSC)"
"1561748","Securing the collection of University of Montana's Zoological Museum","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2016","8/26/2016","Charles Janson","MT","University of Montana","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2018","$499,865.00 ","Zac Cheviron, Jeffrey Good","charles.janson@mso.umt.edu","32 CAMPUS DRIVE MAIN HALL","Missoula","MT","32 CAMPUS DRIVE MAIN HALL, Missoula, MT","598120001","4062436670","BIO","1197","9150|1197","$0.00 ","More than 20,000 biological specimens housed at the University of Montana Zoological Museum will be relocated to a newly constructed building where museum grade metal cabinetry will replace deteriorating wood-and-metal cabinets accumulated over the past century. The larger space, more efficient storage and more secure cabinetry will ensure the preservation and future growth of one of the largest collections of historical and modern mammals and birds in the Northern Rockies. The move will be combined with an update to the database, making it compatible with international standards for collections data. Thus, information from all specimens held by the Museum will become broadly accessible to the general public. The Museum's extensive regional collection of birds and mammals provides a unique historical perspective on modern species distributions and genetic responses to landscape changes. The relocation and digitization of this substantial collection will provide training and discovery opportunities in biology and museum science for high school and undergraduate students, including summer internships for four students from Montana tribal colleges.<br/><br/>The project will provide urgently needed curatorial upgrades to the collection of more than 20,000 specimens of modern-day vertebrates at the University of Montana Zoological Museum (UMZM). As the largest collection of modern land vertebrate specimens from Montana, and among the largest such vertebrate collections in the northern Rocky Mountains, the UMZM provides an important source of materials for research, formal education, and outreach. Current University of Montana faculty are actively using the collections to study diverse questions biological questions, however, the potential for broader accessibility, ongoing specimen preservation, and future growth is severely limited by current infrastructure. Securing the collection will occur via transfer of all research specimens to new cabinets in an archival space. This move will also result in a fourfold increase of the area available to work with the specimens. Building on UM's active incorporation of the collections into undergraduate teaching and research, this project will increase outreach to the local public by new exhibits of UMZM collections centered on seasonal themes, training of K12 teachers to help incorporate biodiversity science into their curricula, and mentored internships at the UMZM of Native American students from regional tribal colleges. The project's activities will be documented at the UMZM's new website (hs.umt.edu/UMZM). The new database will, for the first time, allow web-based access to specimen data from the UMZM collections for academic and other researchers via VertNet and Arctos. These data will be shared with and made accessible with iDigBio (idigbio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561748","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561748","cyan_atom","Securing the collection of University of Montana's Zoological Museum"
"1561743","CSBR: Natural History: Development of the Arkansas Center for Biodiversity Collections to advance biodiversity research and education","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2016","8/26/2016","Brook Fluker","AR","Arkansas State University Main Campus","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2019","$478,094.00 ","Stanley Trauth, Travis Marsico, John Harris","bfluker@astate.edu","504 University Loop East","Jonesboro","AR","504 University Loop East, Jonesboro, AR","724672760","8709722694","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","CSBR: Natural History: Development of the Arkansas Center for Biodiversity Collections to advance biodiversity research and education<br/><br/>Natural history collections have played a central role in research, education, and outreach at Arkansas State University (A-State) for nearly 70 years. Housing more than 500,000 specimens, the combined collections at A-State represent an important record of regional biodiversity from the Interior Highlands, Mississippi Alluvial Plain, and Crowley's Ridge ecoregions of the southeastern United States. These collections are threatened by overcrowding, resulting in inefficient and limited use, and specimen degradation in some cases. This project unifies the eight collections at A-State into common spaces with new shelving, cabinetry, and a singular database under the newly formed Arkansas Center for Biodiversity Collections (ACBC). Improved access to the ACBC will increase opportunities to engage students in understanding the importance and utility of natural history collections, as well as enhance research opportunities for A-State students and the broader scientific community. Additionally, students of the A-State Natural History Collections Curation Club (NHC3) will work with curators to develop natural history displays and K-12 class field trip tours including biodiversity and specimen workshops to educate the underserved student populations in the region. Through active undergraduate and graduate student involvement, the ACBC will link research-grade natural history collections to the general public, particularly K-12 students.<br/><br/>The ACBC mission is to provide a unified, accessible specimen repository and research center for the State of Arkansas, including the Interior Highlands, Upper Mississippi Alluvial Plain, and Crowley's Ridge ecoregions. This geographical region is a major center of endemism for numerous taxonomic groups in eastern North America, and one that has seen drastic landscape modifications over the past 100 years. A large proportion of the collections at A-State cover these unique and diverse ecosystems and represent long-term records that pre-date or document biota during habitat transforming activities or disease spread (e.g., white-nose syndrome in bats) in the region. These collections, therefore, serve as base-line data points for ongoing and future changing conditions. Additionally, this project will preserve and curate voucher specimens and make available important data to the scientific community for small- and large-scale research (e.g., ecological, taxonomic, biogeographic, or applied global change research). Specific project goals are to: 1) alleviate overcrowding and increase room for growth through installation of high-density storage systems and new cabinetry; 2) secure collections through improved storage media and labeling; 3) complete the digitization of specimen data and provide public access to all collection data; and 4) develop a significant outreach program by providing collections-based workshops and tours of ACBC displays and collections. Development of a website for the ACBC (acbc.astate.edu) will highlight collection activities and the current Specify web portal (specify.astate.edu) will be expanded to include ASUMZ specimen data in addition to updated herbarium specimen data. Finally, the complete ACBC database will be interfaced with iDigBio (www.idigbio.org) and other publicly accessible data portals (i.e., VertNet, SERNEC, and GBIF).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561743","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561743","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Development of the Arkansas Center for Biodiversity Collections to advance biodiversity research and education"
"1540984","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API","ICER","EarthCube","9/1/2015","7/30/2015","Christopher Norris","CT","Yale University","Standard Grant","Eva E. Zanzerkia","8/31/2017","$274,244.00 ","Talia Karim, Susan Butts, Lawrence Gall","christopher.norris@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","GEO","8074","7433","$0.00 ","Understanding future environmental change requires researchers to access and integrate data from the geological and biological sciences, in order to answer questions about how environmental change will affect life on Earth. In many cases the data needed to answer these questions already exists but, unfortunately, technology has not kept pace with research needs. This places increasing demands on researchers, who have to search for and download data from multiple separate online databases; compile published information from many different literature sources; and track down specimens housed in museum and other collections scattered around the world. The time needed to search and retrieve this information is enormous and, once found, the data often have to be standardized before they can be used. This project will tackle this problem by developing software tools to connect three established, well-supported, and critically important data sources: the Paleobiology Database (PBDB, paleontological, literature based), iDigPaleo (paleontological, specimen based) and iDigBio (neontological, specimen based). This project will allow users of any one of these databases to access and query the others at the same time, returning a much richer, combined set of data to the user. Connecting these resources will open up a whole host of research questions that are currently difficult to answer, even by multiple researchers working as a team. The development of this system will allow scientists to ask and answer new research questions affecting fields as diverse as biogeographic/niche modeling, systematics, functional morphology, evolutionary biology, ecology, climatology, conservation biology, oceanography, and petroleum geology. This project will fundamentally change the nature of the research questions that can be addressed by the scientific community.<br/><br/>The connectivity between modern and fossil, and specimen and literature-based resources does not currently exist. The digital infrastructure provided by the composite ePANDDA application programming interfaces (APIs) will streamline and normalize data acquisition, including retrieval from disparate data sources, and will facilitate coordination with future data initiatives. Rather than creating another portal for the aggregation of data, ePANDDA will unify results that normally would have required multiple searches on numerous platforms. For the researcher, this eliminates a significant barrier to data collection and processing. Researchers will now have the ability to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries to study earth system processes and the nature of biotic response to environmental change across both space and time. Linking publications to specimens will enrich the potential of museum collections and augment their value for both research and education. The ePANDDA project also provides an opportunity to build collaborative programs that leverage existing education and outreach activities in addition to the primary research goals.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540984","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540984","golden_atom","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API"
"1540929","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API","ICER","EarthCube","9/1/2015","7/30/2015","Mark Uhen","VA","George Mason University","Standard Grant","Eva E. Zanzerkia","8/31/2017","$115,394.00 ","","muhen@gmu.edu","4400 UNIVERSITY DR","FAIRFAX","VA","4400 UNIVERSITY DR, FAIRFAX, VA","220304422","7039932295","GEO","8074","7433","$0.00 ","Understanding future environmental change requires researchers to access and integrate data from the geological and biological sciences, in order to answer questions about how environmental change will affect life on Earth. In many cases the data needed to answer these questions already exists but, unfortunately, technology has not kept pace with research needs. This places increasing demands on researchers, who have to search for and download data from multiple separate online databases; compile published information from many different literature sources; and track down specimens housed in museum and other collections scattered around the world. The time needed to search and retrieve this information is enormous and, once found, the data often have to be standardized before they can be used. This project will tackle this problem by developing software tools to connect three established, well-supported, and critically important data sources: the Paleobiology Database (PBDB, paleontological, literature based), iDigPaleo (paleontological, specimen based) and iDigBio (neontological, specimen based). This project will allow users of any one of these databases to access and query the others at the same time, returning a much richer, combined set of data to the user. Connecting these resources will open up a whole host of research questions that are currently difficult to answer, even by multiple researchers working as a team. The development of this system will allow scientists to ask and answer new research questions affecting fields as diverse as biogeographic/niche modeling, systematics, functional morphology, evolutionary biology, ecology, climatology, conservation biology, oceanography, and petroleum geology. This project will fundamentally change the nature of the research questions that can be addressed by the scientific community.<br/><br/>The connectivity between modern and fossil, and specimen and literature-based resources does not currently exist. The digital infrastructure provided by the composite ePANDDA application programming interfaces (APIs) will streamline and normalize data acquisition, including retrieval from disparate data sources, and will facilitate coordination with future data initiatives. Rather than creating another portal for the aggregation of data, ePANDDA will unify results that normally would have required multiple searches on numerous platforms. For the researcher, this eliminates a significant barrier to data collection and processing. Researchers will now have the ability to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries to study earth system processes and the nature of biotic response to environmental change across both space and time. Linking publications to specimens will enrich the potential of museum collections and augment their value for both research and education. The ePANDDA project also provides an opportunity to build collaborative programs that leverage existing education and outreach activities in addition to the primary research goals.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540929","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540929","golden_atom","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API"
"1561269","CSBR: Natural History: Digitized Images from the Cornell University Insect Collection Support D.I.Y. Entomological Training","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/15/2016","8/12/2016","James Liebherr","NY","Cornell University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$313,100.00 ","Jason Dombroskie","jkl5@cornell.edu","373 Pine Tree Road","Ithaca","NY","373 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY","148502820","6072555014","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Characters used to differentiate the vast diversity of insect species are often available only in primary taxonomic publications, making the specific criteria used for recognizing species difficult to access by individuals outside major research institutions. This is especially true for North American moths (Lepidoptera), within which many species lack scientific names. Natural history collections contain substantial amounts of untapped information concerning North American biodiversity that is largely unavailable to non-scientists. The digital revolution that is allowing the integration of photographic images and associated information permits the availability of information on species diversity along with the criteria used to separate species to anyone with internet access. Moreover, the end-user of such information can make important contributions to the knowledge of our fauna if they are given appropriate information on methods used to characterize species. <br/><br/>The Cornell University Insect Collection (CUIC) includes a major North American moth collection, with extensive representation of moth species from much of the United States, especially the mountain forest habitats of the American southwest. The CUIC Lepidoptera holdings total 1.7 million specimens and are currently stored as four separate, parallel collections. These specimens will be integrated into a single comprehensive moth collection reflecting modern classification and up-to-date nomenclature. The currently parallel collections, housed under cramped and partially unsafe storage conditions, will be rehoused in expanded cabinetry incorporating archival storage materials, ensuring long-term preservation of the specimens and full access to all material by researchers. These tasks will be conducted by undergraduate student employees who will receive training in curation and insect taxonomy. Approximately 8700 adult specimens representing at least 2800 species of North American moths will be photographed along with their associated microscope slide-mounted genitalic preparations. These images with associated label data will be uploaded onto the NSF supported Morphbank website, making all images and information available for moth identification or taxonomic description. Approximately 1500 of the specimens in this special collection have never been assigned to a known, described species, supporting their status as representatives of undescribed, cryptic species. An M.S. graduate student will conduct thesis research that emphasizes the use of moth anatomical characters for species discrimination and description. This student will also develop short educational videos that explain various aspects of moth taxonomy, including how to collect moths, how to dissect moths, and how to identify and interpret the morphological characters used for moth identification and taxonomic description. These videos will target knowledgeable amateurs of all ages, thereby integrating the substantial community of citizen scientists into a larger effort to understand our moth fauna. The adult and genitalic moth images will be made available at Morphbank (www.morphbank.net) and shared with iDigBio (www.idigbio.org). The internet videos as well as the moth images will be linked to the Cornell University Insect Collection website (cuic.entomology.cornell.edu).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561269","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561269","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Digitized Images from the Cornell University Insect Collection Support D.I.Y. Entomological Training"
"1458293","CSBR: Natural History: Critical Upgrades, Expansion, and Reorganization of the Wisconsin State Herbarium (WIS)","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/1/2015","4/1/2015","Kenneth Cameron","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2017","$355,025.00 ","Thomas Nash, MaryAnn Feist","kmcameron@wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","With a collection of more than 1.2 million preserved plant specimens, the Wisconsin State Herbarium (WIS) at the UW-Madison ranks among the top 1% of the world's largest and most active herbaria. It is the third largest public university herbarium in the Americas, and is used extensively by a diverse clientele, including citizens engaged in ecological restoration, state biologists, researchers, professors, as well as students who are conducting independent research or enrolled in any of the nine different university courses that incorporate the herbarium's collection into teaching. Recently, WIS was listed as one of 14 herbaria in the world whose online specimen data has been consulted at least 20 times in studies documenting environmental change; it is a world class resource. As its holdings have grown, the herbarium reached its carrying capacity decades ago, and its facilities are now overcrowded, inadequate for maintaining curatorial standards of specimen storage, and unable to provide full public access. For example, the mechanized compactor holding 476 cabinets of flowering plants has failed and cannot be repaired. <br/><br/>Critical upgrades will take place on both floors of the herbarium; its 30-year old motorized compactor system on the main floor will be modified into a new, more reliable manual system, and a new high-density mobile storage system and associated cabinets will be installed in the herbarium's newly acquired second floor. These improvements will allow for consolidation of collections scattered throughout the building, proper safekeeping and expansion, especially among its exceptional algae, fungi, lichens, and mosses. A reorganization of the entire herbarium collection will follow this expansion, including adoption of a contemporary phylogenetic system of plant classification, which is now taught in all formal university courses on campus. The acquisition of new real estate on the Madison campus coincides with the purchase of a collection of ca. 60,000 lichen specimens that complement existing holdings. In addition, WIS is involved in a number of current regional, national, and international collection digitization activities, and is the lead institution for two NSF-funded Thematic Collections Networks. All data resulting from this project will be posted online (http://herbarium.wisc.edu/databases.htm) and shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Finally, in order to highlight unparalleled natural history museum resources to senior citizens and pre-college teens, WIS will develop a two-day botany ""major"" during UW-Madison's summer Grandparent's University week. Additional information about WIS and its outreach activities is available at http://herbarium.wisc.edu/.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458293","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458293","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Critical Upgrades, Expansion, and Reorganization of the Wisconsin State Herbarium (WIS)"
"1561648","CSBR: Natural History: Engaging Our Future to Preserve Our Past: Curation and Preservation of Historically Significant Collections Through Student Participation at the Rancho Santa","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/15/2016","3/18/2016","Mare Nazaire","CA","Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2019","$126,395.00 ","Lucinda McDade","mnazaire@rsabg.org","1500 North College Avenue","Claremont","CA","1500 North College Avenue, Claremont, CA","917113157","9096258767","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","Student Engagement in the Preservation of Historically Significant Collections at Rancho Santa Botanic Garden<br/><br/>Natural history collections offer a lens into the past and a means to envision the future. Collections are especially important in predicting biodiversity change with shifts in climate and land use. The Herbarium at Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden (RSABG) houses more than 1.2 million specimens and is heavily utilized for research, education, and public outreach. From multiple sources, the Herbarium acquired 30,000 plant specimens collected by ten significant 20th century botanists. 70% of these were collected from 15 of 34 designated world biodiversity hotspots; 30% represents the California Floristic Province biodiversity hotspot. These specimens are in critical need of curation owing to poor storage conditions. Several specimens have been identified as critical for describing and naming species new to science. Curation of these collections will provide physical access to collections currently unavailable for study, promote discovery of species new to science, and yield new distribution and phenology data. Importantly, curation will ensure critically needed preservation. Digitization efforts will provide access of this rich source of specimen data to researchers, students, and the public. Integral to the project are activities involving the participation of graduate students, undergraduates, and high school students. Notably, RSABG will expand on a successful undergraduate internship program by engaging underserved youth from the Greater Los Angeles metropolitan area. Especially targeted are at-risk and transitional aged youth at the high school level, who will be trained in a six-week summer junior intern program. All interns will participate in five workshops that will serve to connect students to collections, natural history, and biodiversity. An exhibit at RSABG will highlight the activities and student participation in the project.<br/><br/>As herbaria serve expanding needs for research, education, and conservation management, it is critical that collections of historic, taxonomic, and geographic significance are curated and digitized, ensuring their availability for research through investments in their long-term security. Through various sources, the Herbarium at Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden acquired 30,000 vascular plant specimens of historic, taxonomic, and geographic importance representing the collections of ten significant botanists of the 20th century. These specimens are in danger of deterioration, owing to unsatisfactory past and current storage conditions (e.g., non-archival newspapers). Thus, these collections are in critical need of curation and improved storage to secure them for posterity. Several specimens have been identified as type material that was thought to have been lost. The principal objective of this three-year project is to curate and digitize these specimens through student participation. A large cadre of students at different levels in their academic career will participate in all aspects of the project, including specimen preparation, databasing, imaging, and georeferencing. Specimen data will become available for more than 18,000 species of vascular plants in ~350 families. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio, GBIF, the Consortium of California Herbaria, and the RSABG Herbarium web portal. Additional information about RSABG, its outreach activities, and the results of this project is available at http://www.rsabg.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561648","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561648","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Engaging Our Future to Preserve Our Past: Curation and Preservation of Historically Significant Collections Through Student Participation at the Rancho Santa"
"1458273","CSBR: Natural History: High-Density Storage, Improved Preservation, and Digital Networking for OSU COV Collections of Fishes, Amphibians, and Reptiles","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/15/2015","5/16/2016","Karen McBee","OK","Oklahoma State University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2017","$422,412.00 ","Stanley Fox, Anthony Echelle","karen.mcbee@okstate.edu","101 WHITEHURST HALL","Stillwater","OK","101 WHITEHURST HALL, Stillwater, OK","740781011","4057449995","BIO","1197","9150|1197","$0.00 ","Oklahoma State University Collection of Vertebrates (OSU COV) comprises collections of fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, and frozen tissues and is administered through the OSU Department of Integrative Biology. These represent invaluable specimens and associated data that are used in research, instruction, and outreach within the OSU/Northern Oklahoma community and throughout the larger community of scholars. This project focuses on improvements to COV-Fishes and COV-Amphibians and Reptiles through replacement of substandard storage containers, installation of high-density, compactible shelving, and completion of digitization and georeferencing for these collections, thus allowing for enhanced use of these collections for research, university instruction, and public education/outreach. These improvements will facilitate use of these collections by OSU faculty and students, researchers from other institutions, and also will enable collaborative efforts with K-12 groups and regional Tribal Colleges that have been hindered by poor conditions of the collection. This award ensures protection of irreplaceable specimens, increase efficiency of use of space, and provide access to associated data via the Internet to researchers within and beyond the OSU community.<br/><br/>The COV-Fishes contains specimens from around the globe with concentrations in the Central Plains of North America and Nepal. This collection also includes a more than 20-year series of fishes from sampling stations throughout Oklahoma donated by Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) that have not yet been cataloged. The COV-Amphibians and Reptiles collection includes specimens from around the world including Chilean lizards and Ozark Plateau salamanders. These collections include type specimens of species described in the last 10 years and have provided materials for these descriptions to researchers at several other universities. Nepalese specimens potentially hold additional undescribed species and ODEQ specimens have great potential for understanding long-term patterns/processes in stream ecology, impacts of environmental change and contaminants, and effects of changing patterns of land use. This project will support installation of high-density, compactible shelving and stainless steel tanks, and to replace substandard containers. The collection catalogs are partially digitized, but only Oklahoma fish are georeferenced, and no catalog is currently searchable via the Internet. The project will allow for digitization and georeferencing of all catalogs and development of a searchable database. Collaborations established with interdisciplinary college-level and K-12 cross-disciplinary programs at OSU and a growing collaboration with Comanche Nation College will be leveraged through the supported improvements and digitization. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and the public.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458273","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458273","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: High-Density Storage, Improved Preservation, and Digital Networking for OSU COV Collections of Fishes, Amphibians, and Reptiles"
"1349356","CSBR: Natural History: Critical infrastructure and digitization upgrades for the Frost Entomological Museum (PSUC) at Penn State","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/1/2014","6/15/2015","Andrew Deans","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2017","$402,489.00 ","Heather Hines, Istvan Miko","adeans@gmail.com","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","BIO","1197","9178","$0.00 ","The Frost Entomological Museum is an active research institution within the Department of Entomology at Penn State's flagship campus in University Park. The Museum houses a large collection of arthropods, estimated at almost 2 million specimens, and a public exhibition and educational space that receives >1,000 visitors per year. This project will unify the storage system onto a single standard, and move specimens to storage cabinets that are more protective - that is, built using archival materials and properly sealed from environmental elements and museum pests. Specimens will be imaged and their collected event data entered into a publically-accessible digital database. There will also be substantial training and outreach components aimed at raising awareness of the importance of insects. Individuals from a broad array of backgrounds - grade school students, undergrads, grad students, and non-expert adults - will be educated in museum practices and the importance of natural history collections. Outreach activities include 'Bug Camp' for kids aged 8-14, meet-the-curator events at the museum, graduate student training, summer internships for undergraduates, public exhibits at the museum, and the 'Great Insect Fair'.<br/><br/>The museum's holdings include one of the largest, most diverse collections of sucking lice (Anoplura, which includes the medically important lice) in the world, alongside renown collections of aphids (Hemiptera: Aphididae, including economically important pests), dragonflies and damselflies (Odonata), substantial collections of parasitic wasps (Hymenoptera, which includes species used to control pestiferous insects), native pollinators (including bees and butterflies), and Pennsylvania insects. Despite their extensive use in research and substantial investment in this resource by the University, the collection suffers from poor storage conditions, evident from an abundance of inadequate specimen cases, and the absence of a modern, accessible database. The activities proposed in this project are designed to remedy these problems by: replacing all specimen cabinets with a purpose-built archival system, increasing storage space, reorganizing the slide-mounted and ethanol-preserved specimens into appropriate storage, and setting up a Web-accessible specimen database. The data will be further disseminated through InvertNet and iDigBio. The database avails Frost Museum data for public data mining and fundamental research in areas such as epidemiology, invasive species biology, global climate change, pollinator declines, and the evolutionary history of insect lineages. More information can be found at the official Frost Entomological Museum website: http://ento.psu.edu/facilities/frost.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349356","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349356","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Critical infrastructure and digitization upgrades for the Frost Entomological Museum (PSUC) at Penn State"
"1349391","CSBR: Natural History Collections of Austin Peay State University: Information and Infrastructure Improvements of the Herbarium and Vertebrate Collections","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","6/1/2014","6/10/2014","Rebecca Johansen","TN","Austin Peay State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","5/31/2017","$310,509.00 ","Larry Estes, Christopher Gienger","johansenr@apsu.edu","601 College Street","Clarksville","TN","601 College Street, Clarksville, TN","370440001","9312217881","BIO","1197","9178|9179","$0.00 ","The Austin Peay State University (APSU) Natural History Collections (NHC) include over 100,000 specimens of plants and animals from the Mid-south region of the U.S. These collections are vital to faculty and student research, serving as the foundation for over 200 publications, theses, and dissertations. The NHC are used in public outreach and as instructional materials supporting APSU biology courses. APSU students traditionally underrepresented in science including, military (28%), women (>50%), low-income, first-time college, and minority students, receive training through courses utilizing the NHC and through collections-based research. Due to recent, drastic growth in the NHC and the discontinued use of toxic fumigants, collections are threatened by damage from overcrowding, fire, and insects. This award will secure the collections through acquisition of storage systems that increases space and prevents specimen damage. Additionally, funds will be used to improve electronic storage of specimen data and to increase accessibility through a consolidated and improved NHC website that provides online access to specimen records, images, and other associated natural history information.<br/><br/>The Austin Peay State University (APSU) Natural History Collections (NHC) include the Mid-south's largest herpetological collection, a rapidly growing fish collection, and the second largest regional herbarium. APSU NHC's mission is to serve as the primary specimen repository for the Mid-south, to lead efforts to describe regional biodiversity, and to train new generations of students through excellence in mentorship, research, and public outreach. While the NHC have contributed significantly to education and research locally, use by the broader scientific community has been limited. Due to recent drastic growth, the NHC are threatened by physical damage from insufficient storage, active insect infestations, and potential future fire, water, and earthquake damage. Project goals are to (1) secure existing collections through installation of compactor shelving systems and implementation of non-toxic pest management, (2) increase utility through development of a single Specify database, and (3) increase accessibility via development and enhancement of online interfaces and collaboration with iDigBio and other data-sharing portals. These actions will promote the NHC's mission and convert currently under-utilized but regionally significant collections into broadly accessible resources that will support education and research related to of one of the most biodiverse areas of the US. More information about the APSU herbarium is available at www.apsu.edu/herbarium/databases; similar outlets will be developed for the vertebrate collections as part of the activities supported by this award.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349391","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349391","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History Collections of Austin Peay State University: Information and Infrastructure Improvements of the Herbarium and Vertebrate Collections"
"1458285","CSBR: Natural History: Securing Alcohol Types and Donated Alcohol Specimens at the INHS Insect Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION|CROSS-EF ACTIVITIES","9/1/2015","8/24/2015","R. Edward DeWalt","IL","University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2018","$487,741.00 ","Matthew Yoder, Dmitry Dmitriev","dewalt@illinois.edu","SUITE A","CHAMPAIGN","IL","SUITE A, CHAMPAIGN, IL","618207473","2173332187","BIO","1197|7275","1197","$0.00 ","An award is made to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign to support the insect collections at the Illinois Natural History Survey (INHS). The project will secure type specimens at INHS, the standard bearers for species, and address further needs for accessioning and digitizing nearly 60,000 vials of donated specimens. Type specimens are expected to be available to scientists in perpetuity, because if they are damaged, identity of species could be lost. Most ethanol preserved insect types at INHS are nearing 100 years old and to mitigate further degradation of these specimens, they will be placed in refrigerated storage with new vials. The specimens will also be further documented through imaging. These specimens provide knowledge of past distributions of species, enhancing our ability to predict both past and future distributions environments change. Expectations for data gathering, description of new species, data analysis, and data sharing are rapidly changing. This award will provide support for training the next generation of biodiversity scientists and informaticians in specimen curation and management from field data collection to analysis of data in the laboratory. This work will ensure a future of qualified, well trained biologists.<br/><br/>The INHS Insect Collection (INHS-IC), one of the oldest entomological collections in North America, houses approximately 7.3 million insect specimens. Over 5,000 primary and secondary wet types exist at the INHS-IC. The older type specimens are in danger of being damaged by desiccation and degradation due to leaching of biological molecules. These specimens will be secured by upgrading vials, imaging labels and specimens, and storing the types in refrigerated space. A training component will be implemented during which a Master's student will use these collections to examine repeated distribution patterns of aquatic insects (chorotypes) in eastern North America, and summer interns will be trained in specimen curation and digitization, learn to code basic bioinformatics scripts, and present an exit seminar on a research topic. A large number of University of Illinois undergraduates will be provided with opportunities to learn museum practice through specimen identification, curation, and digitization of specimens during the project. All label data will be captured using TaxonWorks, a new platform for managing a wide range of biodiversity data tasks, and shared via a local web portal, iDigBio, and the Global Biodiversity Information Facility.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458285","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458285","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Securing Alcohol Types and Donated Alcohol Specimens at the INHS Insect Collection"
"1457909","CSBR: Natural History: Expanding the footprint and the reach of the Clemson University Arthropod Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","5/1/2015","4/12/2016","Michael Caterino","SC","Clemson University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","4/30/2018","$396,983.00 ","","mcateri@clemson.edu","230 Kappa Street","CLEMSON","SC","230 Kappa Street, CLEMSON, SC","296340001","8646562424","BIO","1197","9150|1197","$0.00 ","The Clemson University Arthropod Collection is a 90-year old archive of terrestrial and freshwater arthropods from the southeastern United States and other areas. The collection's globally significant strengths are in aquatic insects, which are important bioindicators of the health of freshwater ecosystems, and black flies, which are significant vectors of human disease. As South Carolina's primary insect collection, this resource serves regional pest diagnostic needs, vouchers a wide variety of survey and monitoring projects, and underpins conservation planning for the region's arthropod diversity. With holdings of over one million specimens representing over 11,000 species, the collection is rich in historical biodiversity data. However, the collection's storage systems are aging, and many parts of the collection are in jeopardy of loss from museum pests and evaporation of preservative. This project will involve transfer of all specimens to modern cabinetry, drawers, and vials, ensuring its longevity, and will digitize locality and specimen images in the process. Several new positions will be created, including a collection manager, graduate assistant, and several part-time undergraduate assistants over the three years of the project. The improved collections and data captured will greatly expand the reach of our extension and outreach programs, improve regional pest monitoring efforts, and offer great opportunities for training of graduate and undergraduate students in entomology and biodiversity science.<br/><br/>Collection rehousing will follow renovation of two newly dedicated spaces adjacent to those currently occupied. Air-tight cabinetry will be employed throughout to eliminate dependence on fumigants for pest protection in the dry, pinned collection. In the alcohol-preserved collection, old vials with degraded stoppers will be replaced by secure screw-cap vials, and all vials will be moved into enclosed cabinetry to protect from light. As collection storage is upgraded, exemplars of each species in the collection will be imaged, and the associated data captured and transcribed with a combination of student and crowd-sourced assistance. Data will be ported to a relational, vouchered specimen database (Specify), and unique specimen identifiers will be applied to all specimens digitized. Data and images will be shared through the museum's web pages (https://sites.google.com/site/clemsonarthropodcollection/), as well as through such aggregators as iDigBio (http://www.idigbio.org) and the Global Biodiversity Information Facility. Outreach activities will include biodiversity events at Clemson's main campus and satellite facilities, participation in citizen science data gathering efforts, and expansion of our program of in-house tours.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1457909","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1457909","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Expanding the footprint and the reach of the Clemson University Arthropod Collection"
"1458033","CSBR: Natural History: Preserving and ensuring access to critical biological collections in an emerging museum at the University of Nevada, Reno","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","6/1/2015","6/20/2016","Elizabeth Leger","NV","Board of Regents, NSHE, obo University of Nevada, Reno","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","5/31/2017","$251,433.00 ","Chris Feldman","eleger@cabnr.unr.edu","1664 North Virginia Street","Reno","NV","1664 North Virginia Street, Reno, NV","895570001","7757844040","BIO","1197","9150|1197","$0.00 ","The state of Nevada, located in the core of the Great Basin, contains a unique flora and fauna, but is also a region under threat by invasive species, water diversions, and other land-use practices. A host of taxa and entire communities are endangered and in decline. The Great Basin, which is high in fish endemism, has experienced 12 fish extinctions in the past 100 years, more than any other region in North America. Eight of these have occurred in Nevada, with seven extinctions endemic to Nevada alone. Almost a third of the remaining ichthyofauna is federally listed. Given the dramatic changes in the region, and those yet to come, museum collections play a significant role in supporting organismal science, providing baseline information about regional biodiversity and chronicling biotic change over decades. The fluid collections at University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) are a pivotal resource, ranking among the most extensive holdings of Nevada material and containing irreplaceable specimens of extinct, extirpated, and endangered taxa. Through the opening of public exhibit space, the new Natural History Museum is playing a unique role in biodiversity education in Nevada. Undergraduates, graduates, and alumni are engaged in all aspects of the museum, including hosting K-12 visits and the creation of public displays and outreach content, developed with an eye towards meeting the state's soon-to-be-adopted Next Generation Science Standards. <br/><br/>The UNR has recently consolidated the majority of its natural history collections, formerly housed in widely disparate, off-campus locations, into a single, newly-renovated space on-campus. This award supports integration of fluid collections into this resource, making ca. 28,100 herpetological and fish specimens (including extinct and endangered taxa) accessible for researchers and managers. In addition to moving material to a central, on-campus location, specimens will be transferred to new, more appropriate containers, fully catalogued, digitized, and georeferenced for publication through online database portals. Securing, preserving, and ensuring access to these collections will allow research and management communities the ability to reconstruct the evolutionary and ecological history of the Great Basin. Impacts of this project include both scientific and societal benefits, including expansion of an already successful K-12 outreach program, and establishment of a consolidated web presence for both fluid collections and natural history museum. All data resulting from this project will be posted online (http://arctos.database.museum) and shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458033","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458033","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Preserving and ensuring access to critical biological collections in an emerging museum at the University of Nevada, Reno"
"1458223","CSBR Ownership Transfer: Saving an ecologically data-rich collection: adding the Geological Survey of Alabama Fish Collection to The University of Alabama Ichthyological Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/1/2015","8/2/2016","Phillip Harris","AL","University of Alabama Tuscaloosa","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$272,239.00 ","Randy Singer","pharris@ua.edu","801 University Blvd.","Tuscaloosa","AL","801 University Blvd., Tuscaloosa, AL","354870005","2053485152","BIO","1197","9150","$0.00 ","An award is made to the University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa to acquire the fish collection of the Geological Survey of Alabama (GSA). This collection of over 450,000 specimens of freshwater fishes from throughout the State, provides an unparalleled record of the occurrence, distribution, and ecology of these species in the Tennessee and Mobile River basins, will be transferred to the University of Alabama Ichthyological Collection (UAIC). The transfer will secure the collection at UAIC and ensure the long-term care of these valuable specimens, as well as providing increased access to the specimens and associated ecological data through the UAIC web portal (specifyweb.as.ua.edu) and those of project partners (GBIF, FishNet2, VertNet, and iDigBio). The intensive sampling effort that resulted in the GSA collection makes it of particular importance to the research community including its use in student training and research. <br/><br/>This project transfers ownership of the GSA fish collection into UAIC, providing immediate curatorial intervention to a very large collection of freshwater fishes and associated ecological data that would otherwise be lost to the scientific community. Addition of these specimens into UAIC augments and supplements the material currently in UAIC in both the number of specimens and the value of the associated collection and ecological data to the research community. The GSA collection represents intensive sampling throughout Alabama and surrounding drainages and potentially informs systematics, biogeography, taxonomy, life-history, and ecological studies. The environmental data associated with a large portion of the specimens provide time-series information usable by conservation biologists, ecologists and land managers to document human impacts and environmental changes across freshwater aquatic ecosystems in Alabama. The GSA collection also greatly increases UAIC's holdings of threatened and endangered species endemic to Alabama, and facilitates future research on these taxa by providing electronic access to these valuable specimens. By uniting these collections and providing access to associated field data through several biodiversity information portals an invaluable resource documenting freshwater fish biodiversity in Alabama and the southeastern United States is made available for training and research.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458223","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458223","cyan_tree","CSBR Ownership Transfer: Saving an ecologically data-rich collection: adding the Geological Survey of Alabama Fish Collection to The University of Alabama Ichthyological Collection"
"1458098","CSBR: Natural History: Essential storage upgrade for ornithological research collections at the University of Iowa Museum of Natural History","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/1/2015","5/6/2016","Trina Roberts","IA","University of Iowa","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2018","$366,540.00 ","Cindy Opitz","trina-roberts@uiowa.edu","2 GILMORE HALL","IOWA CITY","IA","2 GILMORE HALL, IOWA CITY, IA","522421320","3193352123","BIO","1197","9150|1197","$0.00 ","This project will upgrade infrastructure in the bird, egg, and nest research collections at the University of Iowa Museum of Natural History. Founded in 1858, UIMNH is the oldest US university museum west of the Mississippi River, and it remains the only museum of its kind in the state. Its holdings represent more than a century of biological collecting in Iowa, the Midwest, and around the world, and are of historical and ecological importance. The ornithology collection is among the largest and best-documented, with approximately 13,880 bird and 17,220 egg and nest specimens, many from the Midwest before large-scale agriculture and urbanization drastically changed the landscape. This collection is an important and irreplaceable resource for modern scientific studies, including research on the effects of land-use and climate change, introduced and invasive species, and modern agricultural practices. This upgrade will improve conditions, alleviate overcrowding, and generally secure and stabilize the collection, ensuring its continued availability while increasing access for scientists and students. The project will provide training and development opportunities for several undergraduate students. It will also include the development of public exhibit components on the use of museum collections in modern scientific research, to be displayed both at UIMNH and in the traveling UI Mobile Museum. <br/><br/><br/>The project's major activity will be the installation of a compactor storage system and new cabinets in one room of Macbride Hall, the 1907 building housing UIMNH. Consolidating and rehousing the ornithology collection in this single area will allow more efficient use of space and taxonomic reorganization, and will greatly improve access by staff and visitors. This upgrade will bring the entire ornithology collection into an environmentally controlled room for the first time in its history. As part of the upgrade and rehousing process, all specimens will be georeferenced. Scientifically and historically important specimens will be photographed, increasing the amount of digital data available for the collection. The bases of public exhibit cases that currently contain research specimens will be transformed into a combination of interactive exhibits for children and ""visible storage,"" introducing museum visitors to the research collections and their role in modern science. In addition, a digital touchscreen module on collections-based research will be added to the UI Mobile Museum (http://discover.research.uiowa.edu/mobile-museum). All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Additional information on the UIMNH collections can be found at http://www.uiowa.edu/mnh/researchcollections.html.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458098","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458098","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Essential storage upgrade for ornithological research collections at the University of Iowa Museum of Natural History"
"1645520","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","8/16/2016","Jonathan Hendricks","NY","Paleontological Research Institute","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$164,038.00 ","","jonathan.hendricks@sjsu.edu","1259 Trumansburg Road","Ithaca","NY","1259 Trumansburg Road, Ithaca, NY","148501313","6072736623","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1645520","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1645520","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1601957","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Jennifer Zaspel","IN","Purdue University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$114,702.00 ","","jzaspel@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601957","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601957","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1602101","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Ann Molineux","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$163,742.00 ","Rowan Martindale, Matthew Brown","annm@austin.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1602101","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1602101","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1601369","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Akito Kawahara","FL","University of Florida","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$285,202.00 ","Jaret Daniels","kawahara@flmnh.ufl.edu","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA","GAINESVILLE","FL","1 UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE, FL","326112002","3523923516","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601369","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601369","cyan_tree","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1600556","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Anthony Cognato","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$226,389.00 ","","cognato@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600556","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600556","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1600824","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Merrill Peterson","WA","Western Washington University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$12,132.00 ","","peterson@biol.wwu.edu","516 High Street","Bellingham","WA","516 High Street, Bellingham, WA","982259038","3606502884","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600824","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1600824","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601461","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Robin Thomson","MN","University of Minnesota-Twin Cities","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$97,048.00 ","Ralph Holzenthal","thom1514@umn.edu","200 OAK ST SE","Minneapolis","MN","200 OAK ST SE, Minneapolis, MN","554552070","6126245599","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601461","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601461","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1503574","Partnership to the Macrofungi Collection Consortium for the Richard Homola Mycological Herbarium","DBI","Digitization","5/1/2015","4/28/2015","Seanna Annis","ME","University of Maine","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","4/30/2017","$66,495.00 ","","sannis@maine.edu","5717 Corbett Hall","ORONO","ME","5717 Corbett Hall, ORONO, ME","44695717","2075811484","BIO","6895","9150","$0.00 ","The goal of this project is to add 8,000 macrofungi specimens from the Richard Homola Mycological Collection at the University of Maine to the Macrofungi Collection Consortium (MaCC). Label information for each specimen will be digitized along with supplementary 35mm color slides, field notes, and scanning electron micrographs of spores. The data and images will be publically accessible through the MyCoPortal and iDigBio websites for research and public use. Student training, course development, and public engagement through workshops are also goals of this project.<br/><br/><br/>A primary goal of the MaCC is to understand the diversity of macrofungi and their symbiotic partners. Additionally, understanding how these attributes, diversity and interactions, have changed over time, and informed human endeavors is critical. Maine covers half of the area of New England and contains a diversity of habitats, including eastern deciduous forest and northern boreal forest, which support a remarkable diversity of fungi. The Homola herbarium contains extensive collections from Maine by Dr. Homola and will fill historical and geographic gaps in the MaCC data. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503574","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503574","cyan_atom","Partnership to the Macrofungi Collection Consortium for the Richard Homola Mycological Herbarium"
"1503678","Digitization TCN:Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years","DBI","Digitization|SEDIMENTARY GEO & PALEOBIOLOGY","8/1/2015","7/16/2015","Charles Marshall","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2019","$541,002.00 ","Seth Finnegan, Lisa White, Patricia Holroyd","crmarshall@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","BIO","6895|7459","6895","$0.00 ","Fossils provide our only direct evidence of past biodiversity and how individual organisms to ecosystems have responded to past and long-term environmental change. This project fills a major gap in the documentation of past environmental change, making available digitized data from the especially rich fossil record of the eastern Pacific marine invertebrate communities of the Cenozoic, the 66 million years that have passed since the extinction of the dinosaurs. Digitization and integration of these data will foster increased accessibility, efficient analysis to understand past change, the identification of factors involved in that change, and enable predictions for how current biodiversity may be impacted by future change. Development of virtual fieldwork experiences will assist stakeholders and educators in understanding how field data and fossil collections are used to infer past ecosystem and environmental conditions.<br/><br/>The data currently exist as a vast collection of fossil specimens and printed materials distributed among multiple natural history collections: this project involves 7 primary institutions, one small collection and one federal institution and will integrate this digitized specimen data with the other two ongoing fossil networks through the web portal iDigPaleo, expanding the resource for fossil invertebrate information by spanning over 500 million years. This wealth of data will provide resources not only to researchers, but will be made available to K-16 educators, government, industry, and the general public. Through the national resource (iDigBio) these data will be integrated with information on modern organisms providing the means to understand important questions on niches, environmental change, transitions in sea levels, etc. Additionally, undergraduate and graduate students will be trained in the modern uses of natural history collections. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503678","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1503678","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN:Collaborative: Documenting Fossil Marine Invertebrate Communities of the Eastern Pacific - Faunal Responses to Environmental Change over the last 66 million years"
"1540700","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API","ICER","EarthCube","9/1/2015","7/30/2015","Roy Nelson","FL","Florida State University","Standard Grant","Eva E. Zanzerkia","8/31/2017","$154,360.00 ","","gnelson@bio.fsu.edu","874 Traditions Way, 3rd Floor","TALLAHASSEE","FL","874 Traditions Way, 3rd Floor, TALLAHASSEE, FL","323064166","8506445260","GEO","8074","7433","$0.00 ","Understanding future environmental change requires researchers to access and integrate data from the geological and biological sciences, in order to answer questions about how environmental change will affect life on Earth. In many cases the data needed to answer these questions already exists but, unfortunately, technology has not kept pace with research needs. This places increasing demands on researchers, who have to search for and download data from multiple separate online databases; compile published information from many different literature sources; and track down specimens housed in museum and other collections scattered around the world. The time needed to search and retrieve this information is enormous and, once found, the data often have to be standardized before they can be used. This project will tackle this problem by developing software tools to connect three established, well-supported, and critically important data sources: the Paleobiology Database (PBDB, paleontological, literature based), iDigPaleo (paleontological, specimen based) and iDigBio (neontological, specimen based). This project will allow users of any one of these databases to access and query the others at the same time, returning a much richer, combined set of data to the user. Connecting these resources will open up a whole host of research questions that are currently difficult to answer, even by multiple researchers working as a team. The development of this system will allow scientists to ask and answer new research questions affecting fields as diverse as biogeographic/niche modeling, systematics, functional morphology, evolutionary biology, ecology, climatology, conservation biology, oceanography, and petroleum geology. This project will fundamentally change the nature of the research questions that can be addressed by the scientific community.<br/><br/>The connectivity between modern and fossil, and specimen and literature-based resources does not currently exist. The digital infrastructure provided by the composite ePANDDA application programming interfaces (APIs) will streamline and normalize data acquisition, including retrieval from disparate data sources, and will facilitate coordination with future data initiatives. Rather than creating another portal for the aggregation of data, ePANDDA will unify results that normally would have required multiple searches on numerous platforms. For the researcher, this eliminates a significant barrier to data collection and processing. Researchers will now have the ability to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries to study earth system processes and the nature of biotic response to environmental change across both space and time. Linking publications to specimens will enrich the potential of museum collections and augment their value for both research and education. The ePANDDA project also provides an opportunity to build collaborative programs that leverage existing education and outreach activities in addition to the primary research goals.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540700","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540700","golden_atom","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API"
"1540902","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API","ICER","EarthCube","9/1/2015","7/30/2015","Jocelyn Sessa","NY","American Museum Natural History","Standard Grant","Eva E. Zanzerkia","8/31/2017","$172,303.00 ","Neil Landman","jsessa@amnh.org","Central Park West at 79th St","New York","NY","Central Park West at 79th St, New York, NY","100245192","2127695975","GEO","8074","7433","$0.00 ","Understanding future environmental change requires researchers to access and integrate data from the geological and biological sciences, in order to answer questions about how environmental change will affect life on Earth. In many cases the data needed to answer these questions already exists but, unfortunately, technology has not kept pace with research needs. This places increasing demands on researchers, who have to search for and download data from multiple separate online databases; compile published information from many different literature sources; and track down specimens housed in museum and other collections scattered around the world. The time needed to search and retrieve this information is enormous and, once found, the data often have to be standardized before they can be used. This project will tackle this problem by developing software tools to connect three established, well-supported, and critically important data sources: the Paleobiology Database (PBDB, paleontological, literature based), iDigPaleo (paleontological, specimen based) and iDigBio (neontological, specimen based). This project will allow users of any one of these databases to access and query the others at the same time, returning a much richer, combined set of data to the user. Connecting these resources will open up a whole host of research questions that are currently difficult to answer, even by multiple researchers working as a team. The development of this system will allow scientists to ask and answer new research questions affecting fields as diverse as biogeographic/niche modeling, systematics, functional morphology, evolutionary biology, ecology, climatology, conservation biology, oceanography, and petroleum geology. This project will fundamentally change the nature of the research questions that can be addressed by the scientific community.<br/><br/>The connectivity between modern and fossil, and specimen and literature-based resources does not currently exist. The digital infrastructure provided by the composite ePANDDA application programming interfaces (APIs) will streamline and normalize data acquisition, including retrieval from disparate data sources, and will facilitate coordination with future data initiatives. Rather than creating another portal for the aggregation of data, ePANDDA will unify results that normally would have required multiple searches on numerous platforms. For the researcher, this eliminates a significant barrier to data collection and processing. Researchers will now have the ability to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries to study earth system processes and the nature of biotic response to environmental change across both space and time. Linking publications to specimens will enrich the potential of museum collections and augment their value for both research and education. The ePANDDA project also provides an opportunity to build collaborative programs that leverage existing education and outreach activities in addition to the primary research goals.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540902","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1540902","golden_atom","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API"
"1561706","CSBR: Natural History: Securing, Expanding, and Making Accessible the Roosevelt Wild Life Collections at the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2016","8/12/2016","Rebecca Rundell","NY","SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2018","$491,705.00 ","Quentin Wheeler","rundell@esf.edu","PO Box 9","Albany","NY","PO Box 9, Albany, NY","122010009","3154706606","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","1561706: CSBR: Natural History: Securing, Expanding, and Making Accessible the Roosevelt Wild Life Collections at the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry<br/><br/>The Roosevelt Wild Life Collections (RWLC) at the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry (SUNY-ESF), named for and endorsed by President Theodore Roosevelt, is an active repository of research specimens documenting North American (particularly northeastern) biodiversity. It is also a collection that is central to one of the most heavily subscribed graduate and undergraduate organismal biology education programs in the United States. This project will secure and make accessible the RWLC bird, mammal and parasite specimens in modern space-saving cabinetry within a new, centrally located campus collections center. This center will catalyze a campus-wide initiative that connects SUNY-ESF students from underrepresented groups, as ""Collections Ambassadors,"" to research, education, and leadership in environmental biology. A graduate student (Collections Assistant) will be trained in curatorial techniques and will make high-resolution images web-accessible in order to share them with Syracuse inner city high school students and ignite excitement about nature by viewing it up-close. These collections and natural science educational connections will be important for students' career development. The public will be able to tour and view the collections through large windows onto the collections research space. <br/><br/>As our nation's biodiversity declines, societal need for natural history collections increases. However, the foundation for collections accessibility and future expansion is security. Many of RWLC vertebrate specimens date to the 1800s and early 1900s and current cabinetry is not much younger. Under present conditions, specimens are inaccessible due to overcrowding in inadequate and poorly sealing cabinets, pests, and lack of digitization. This project leverages a state award to finish a large climate-controlled space within an existing new building, which will house growing and heavily used collections and facilitate their digitization. The collections move will involve quantitative assessment, stabilization, and integrated pest management of specimens, as well as curation and data management training of Collections Ambassadors (undergraduate interns) and the Collections Assistant. As part of the reorganization, specimens will be re-arranged and digitized. The new drawers of digitized specimens and modern specimen arrangement will be the basis for collections-based research for generations of SUNY-ESF's emerging environmental leaders. Many of the RWLC's specimens are from New York's ""forever wild"" Adirondack Park, beloved by the RWLC's namesake President Theodore Roosevelt. Project results will be made available on the web (www.esf.edu/rwls/) and digitized specimen data will be shared with iDigBio (www.idigbio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561706","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561706","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Securing, Expanding, and Making Accessible the Roosevelt Wild Life Collections at the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry"
"1561759","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Transfer of Orphaned Kettleman Hills Collection from San Francisco State University to the University of California Museum of Paleontology","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/1/2016","8/4/2016","Lisa White","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2017","$108,279.00 ","Patricia Holroyd","ldwhite@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Paleontology collections represent a rare, irreplaceable resource for understanding Earth history. The University of California Museum of Paleontology (UCMP) has one of the largest and most actively used fossil collections in the country. This project secures a unique and endangered collection of two to five million year old marine invertebrate and rare marine and land vertebrate fossils by transferring them from San Francisco State University (SFSU) to UCMP where the specimens will be curated and digitally cataloged, preserving the data for future generations. Students and faculty at San Francisco State University over the course of 40 years collected these fossils with precise, high quality geographic and geologic information from multiple geologic formations from the Kettleman Hills of Central California. The collection has been virtually unknown to the scientific community and it contains more than 100 genera and 200 species of bivalve and gastropod mollusks, and fewer varieties of echinoids, bryozoans, corals, and brachiopods, with rarer fish, reptiles, and marine and terrestrial mammals. In addition to providing web-accessible digital specimen records, the data and images of fossils from the collection will be incorporated into education modules and virtual field trips posted on UCMP websites and the project will provide important training opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students.<br/><br/>The focus of the project is the physical transfer, rehousing, and digital cataloging of a unique, endangered collection of Pliocene-Pleistocene-aged fossils from the Etchegoin, San Joaquin, and Tulare formations in the Kettleman Hills of Central California. The Pliocene-Pleistocene marine fossil record in California records important global environmental and sea level changes and specific drivers operating over the last five million years include climate, glacial-interglacial cycles, and local plate tectonic movements. Fossils of this age and related faunas are the subject of ongoing study by researchers who actively use UCMP collections. The effort will, for the first time, enable researchers to make use of this irreplaceable collection by providing physical access to the fossils and electronic access to the accompanying locality data. Results of the project will be accessible online (www.ucmp.berkeley.edu) and digitized collections data and images will be shared via iDigBio (www.idigbio.org) and the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (www.gbif.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561759","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561759","cyan_atom","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Transfer of Orphaned Kettleman Hills Collection from San Francisco State University to the University of California Museum of Paleontology"
"1561640","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Securing the future and accessibility of the Carl W. and Marian E. Rettenmeyer army ant guest collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","5/1/2016","3/17/2016","Janine Caira","CT","University of Connecticut","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","4/30/2019","$198,669.00 ","Bernard Goffinet, Jane O'Donnell","janine.caira@uconn.edu","438 Whitney Road Ext.","Storrs","CT","438 Whitney Road Ext., Storrs, CT","62691133","8604863622","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Army ants live in highly complex societies, accompanied by legions of tiny, intimate associates (primarily mites and insects). The study of these host/symbiont systems is precluded by a lack of access to basic information and knowledge about their biology, including physical collections. Resulting from 50 years of fieldwork, the Rettenmeyer Army Ant Guest Collection (AAGC) at the University of Connecticut (UConn) is an unparalleled resource for studying complex systems of social insects. The AAGC comprises more than two million specimens of New World army ants and their associated guests: Hundreds of species of mites, beetles, flies, wasps, springtails, and bristletails. Extensive field notes and numerous photographs complement the biological specimens, detailing intricacies of species interactions. This project will stabilize this collection, addressing critical issues. This project aims to address basic physical storage issues and to make all data publicly available via an on-line database so as to maximize its potential as a source of information on social behavior in insects. A two-part exhibit will engage the campus community. One part will highlight the Rettenmeyers' collecting activities. Across campus, the second part will include a large ant model complete with an array of mites attached all to scale. <br/><br/>This project is motivated by the recent donation of the Rettenmeyer Army Ant Guest Collection (AAGC) to the UConn Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Biodiversity Research Collection Facility. The AAGC comprises more than 2 million specimens of New World army ants and their associated arthropods. It includes ca. 1,000 types representing 200 species, ca. 16,000 pinned specimens, ca. 5,000 microscope slides, more than 15,000 vials and jars, complemented by detailed field data and 5,000 Kodachrome transparencies. The collection is in dire need of stabilization - fluid levels are low, stoppers are deteriorating, specimens are overcrowded and disorganized. The project's two primary goals are specimen curation (e.g., replacing fluid, re-vialing, labeling, attaching barcodes, and reorganization) and establishing an on-line presence by modifying an existing MySQL database to accommodate the AAGC in four related Tables. Type specimens and colony exemplars will be image and linked to database records. Data will be shared with iDigBio (www.idigbio.org) and the Global Biodiversity Information Facility. High school students will work with graduate students to hone their writing and observation skills as they interpret slide labels to populate the database. Project results can be accessed online (biodiversity.uconn.edu/ant-guests/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561640","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561640","cyan_tree","CSBR: Ownership Transfer: Securing the future and accessibility of the Carl W. and Marian E. Rettenmeyer army ant guest collection"
"1458045","CSBR: Natural History: Mission Critical Improvements to Virginia Tech's Insect Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","8/1/2015","7/11/2016","Paul Marek","VA","Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$467,249.00 ","","pmarek@vt.edu","Sponsored Programs 0170","BLACKSBURG","VA","Sponsored Programs 0170, BLACKSBURG, VA","240610001","5402315281","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","An award is made to the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University to support improvements to the Virginia Tech Insect Collection. Founded in 1888, this is the oldest and largest entomological collection in the Commonwealth. Its nearly half-million specimens represent the rich insect diversity of the eastern United States with emphasis on the Appalachian region. This collection is an exceptional repository of pollinators, endangered insects, and many native species, once common but now disappearing from habitat loss. Museum specimens provide a critical baseline for comprehending biological change through time, tracking the spread of insect disease vectors and agriculturally destructive invasive species that threaten our ecosystems, agriculture and public health. This collection is a frontier for the discovery and description of biodiversity, representing hundreds of undescribed new species. This award will provide support for personnel and new cabinets and drawers to improve conditions for specimens. Specimen data will be digitized and made accessible through online resources, improving access to ""dark data"" conserved alongside the physical specimens (more than 98 percent of the material is currently not digitized). Several scientifically valuable collections in the museum will be conserved, including specimens of Federally Endangered species, endemic Appalachian species, and critical pollinators.<br/><br/>Despite the continuous use and constant growth of this collection, the storage and curation methods are antiquated and it is currently located at a temporary storage facility. This project will provide critical support to the collection and will accomplish the relocation of the collection to campus, improve the physical storage infrastructure for specimens, and address digitization, cataloguing, and documentation of specimens. Over the duration of this project, undergraduate and graduate students along with a new full-time collections manager will be trained in collections research, including curatorial best practices, digitization, and networking biodiversity data. Public outreach events will target the underserved Appalachian population. Science curriculum kits will be developed for elementary students, and old insect cabinets and drawers will be upcycled as mini-natural history collections and donated to local nature centers. An insect collection exhibit will be developed for the University's annual Bug Fest and Bug Camp for elementary school students. With a revitalized presence on campus and a greater capacity to engage the public with insects and science, the Virginia Tech Insect Collection represents a unique and powerful resource to translate the importance of biodiversity and science to the historically underserved Appalachian region. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and the public.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458045","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458045","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Mission Critical Improvements to Virginia Tech's Insect Collection"
"1303779","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2013","7/20/2013","Christopher Dick","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$165,604.00 ","","cwdick@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","This award will support investigators from a consortium of 50 herbaria at universities, botanical gardens, and natural history museums across the U.S. to digitize their collections of macroalgae. When they have finished, high resolution images and information about when and where each specimen was collected will be openly accessible for more than a million specimens through the consortium's web portal and the iDigBio web resource. Macroalgae are the foundation of marine, estuarine and freshwater benthic ecosystems providing food, substrata and protection for a myriad of other aquatic organisms. Many macroalgal species are sensitive to environmental change. The data provided through the portal will allow researchers and the public at large determine how macroalgal biodiversity and our aquatic ecosystems have changed over the past 150 years as a result of climate change, bioinvasions, and a wide range of human activity. <br/><br/>A number of macroalgal species, including kelp, nori, and others are grown extensively via aquaculture or harvested from the wild for human food and for extraction of colloids used in cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. The consortium's web portal will provide opportunities for the public to learn about the economic and ecological importance of macroalgae. Tools will be provided for citizen scientists to contribute to the project by helping transcribe some of the ancillary details from specimen labels into the database. Interactive exhibits and educational modules will be developed by the education departments of the museums in the consortium where hundreds of thousands of visitors will experience them each year. The project will also provide integrative training in collections and informatics research for undergraduate and graduate students through participation in the digitization effort and through internships at one of the museums. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1303779","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1303779","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment"
"1304924","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2013","1/14/2016","Christopher Neefus","NH","University of New Hampshire","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$1,857,604.00 ","","chris.neefus@unh.edu","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107","Durham","NH","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107, Durham, NH","38243585","6038622172","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","This award will support investigators from a consortium of 50 herbaria at universities, botanical gardens, and natural history museums across the U.S. to digitize their collections of macroalgae. When they have finished, high resolution images and information about when and where each specimen was collected will be openly accessible for more than a million specimens through the consortium's web portal and the iDigBio web resource. Macroalgae are the foundation of marine, estuarine and freshwater benthic ecosystems providing food, substrata and protection for a myriad of other aquatic organisms. Many macroalgal species are sensitive to environmental change. The data provided through the portal will allow researchers and the public at large determine how macroalgal biodiversity and our aquatic ecosystems have changed over the past 150 years as a result of climate change, bioinvasions, and a wide range of human activity. <br/><br/>A number of macroalgal species, including kelp, nori, and others are grown extensively via aquaculture or harvested from the wild for human food and for extraction of colloids used in cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. The consortium's web portal will provide opportunities for the public to learn about the economic and ecological importance of macroalgae. Tools will be provided for citizen scientists to contribute to the project by helping transcribe some of the ancillary details from specimen labels into the database. Interactive exhibits and educational modules will be developed by the education departments of the museums in the consortium where hundreds of thousands of visitors will experience them each year. The project will also provide integrative training in collections and informatics research for undergraduate and graduate students through participation in the digitization effort and through internships at one of the museums. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304924","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304924","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment"
"1304824","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2013","7/20/2013","David Giblin","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$128,276.00 ","","dgiblin@uw.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","This award will support investigators from a consortium of 50 herbaria at universities, botanical gardens, and natural history museums across the U.S. to digitize their collections of macroalgae. When they have finished, high resolution images and information about when and where each specimen was collected will be openly accessible for more than a million specimens through the consortium's web portal and the iDigBio web resource. Macroalgae are the foundation of marine, estuarine and freshwater benthic ecosystems providing food, substrata and protection for a myriad of other aquatic organisms. Many macroalgal species are sensitive to environmental change. The data provided through the portal will allow researchers and the public at large determine how macroalgal biodiversity and our aquatic ecosystems have changed over the past 150 years as a result of climate change, bioinvasions, and a wide range of human activity. <br/><br/>A number of macroalgal species, including kelp, nori, and others are grown extensively via aquaculture or harvested from the wild for human food and for extraction of colloids used in cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. The consortium's web portal will provide opportunities for the public to learn about the economic and ecological importance of macroalgae. Tools will be provided for citizen scientists to contribute to the project by helping transcribe some of the ancillary details from specimen labels into the database. Interactive exhibits and educational modules will be developed by the education departments of the museums in the consortium where hundreds of thousands of visitors will experience them each year. The project will also provide integrative training in collections and informatics research for undergraduate and graduate students through participation in the digitization effort and through internships at one of the museums. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304824","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304824","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment"
"1304861","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2013","7/20/2013","Alan Weakley","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$138,696.00 ","Kathleen Pryer, Paul Gabrielson, Max Hommersand","weakley@unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","This award will support investigators from a consortium of 50 herbaria at universities, botanical gardens, and natural history museums across the U.S. to digitize their collections of macroalgae. When they have finished, high resolution images and information about when and where each specimen was collected will be openly accessible for more than a million specimens through the consortium's web portal and the iDigBio web resource. Macroalgae are the foundation of marine, estuarine and freshwater benthic ecosystems providing food, substrata and protection for a myriad of other aquatic organisms. Many macroalgal species are sensitive to environmental change. The data provided through the portal will allow researchers and the public at large determine how macroalgal biodiversity and our aquatic ecosystems have changed over the past 150 years as a result of climate change, bioinvasions, and a wide range of human activity. <br/><br/>A number of macroalgal species, including kelp, nori, and others are grown extensively via aquaculture or harvested from the wild for human food and for extraction of colloids used in cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. The consortium's web portal will provide opportunities for the public to learn about the economic and ecological importance of macroalgae. Tools will be provided for citizen scientists to contribute to the project by helping transcribe some of the ancillary details from specimen labels into the database. Interactive exhibits and educational modules will be developed by the education departments of the museums in the consortium where hundreds of thousands of visitors will experience them each year. The project will also provide integrative training in collections and informatics research for undergraduate and graduate students through participation in the digitization effort and through internships at one of the museums. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304861","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304861","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment"
"1303909","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment","DBI","Digitization","8/1/2013","7/20/2013","Brent Mishler","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$315,518.00 ","","bmishler@calmail.berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","This award will support investigators from a consortium of 50 herbaria at universities, botanical gardens, and natural history museums across the U.S. to digitize their collections of macroalgae. When they have finished, high resolution images and information about when and where each specimen was collected will be openly accessible for more than a million specimens through the consortium's web portal and the iDigBio web resource. Macroalgae are the foundation of marine, estuarine and freshwater benthic ecosystems providing food, substrata and protection for a myriad of other aquatic organisms. Many macroalgal species are sensitive to environmental change. The data provided through the portal will allow researchers and the public at large determine how macroalgal biodiversity and our aquatic ecosystems have changed over the past 150 years as a result of climate change, bioinvasions, and a wide range of human activity. <br/><br/>A number of macroalgal species, including kelp, nori, and others are grown extensively via aquaculture or harvested from the wild for human food and for extraction of colloids used in cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. The consortium's web portal will provide opportunities for the public to learn about the economic and ecological importance of macroalgae. Tools will be provided for citizen scientists to contribute to the project by helping transcribe some of the ancillary details from specimen labels into the database. Interactive exhibits and educational modules will be developed by the education departments of the museums in the consortium where hundreds of thousands of visitors will experience them each year. The project will also provide integrative training in collections and informatics research for undergraduate and graduate students through participation in the digitization effort and through internships at one of the museums. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biological Collections program and all data resulting from this award will be available through the national resource (iDigBio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1303909","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1303909","cyan_atom","Collaborative Research: Digitization TCN: The Macroalgal Herbarium Consortium: Accessing 150 Years of Specimen Data to Understand Changes in the Marine/Aquatic Environment"
"1349322","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Critical renovation and revitalization of the University of Iowa Fossil Plant Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","6/1/2014","5/30/2014","Ann Budd","IA","University of Iowa","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","5/31/2017","$196,751.00 ","Tiffany Adrain, Jonathan Adrain, Hallie Sims","ann-budd@uiowa.edu","2 GILMORE HALL","IOWA CITY","IA","2 GILMORE HALL, IOWA CITY, IA","522421320","3193352123","BIO","1197","9150|9178","$0.00 ","Fossils tell us about life on Earth over the past 3.5 billion years, but they can also help us predict what will happen to life in the future, as the Earth's environment continues to change. Museums hold millions of fossils used by researchers worldwide. Each individual collection of fossils, regardless of its size, is a vital piece of evidence, providing it is well maintained and documented. The fossil plant collection at the University of Iowa Paleontology Repository (UIPR) is no exception. Since 2005, scattered individual faculty research collections have been transferred from the UI Biology Department as faculty retire. These collections are now consolidated as a single unit under UIPR care. To preserve this new collection, specimens will be organized in museum-grade cabinets in storage media designed to mitigate deterioration, risks from pests, and high and/or fluctuating humidity. To make the collection accessible for research and education, specimen identifications will be verified and updated, specimens will be cataloged and photographed, and the digitized information made available on-line. Earth and Environmental Science undergraduate students, Museum Studies interns, and McNair Scholars will receive training in collection management and will investigate new techniques for determining the locality from which specimens were collected. All training efforts will target students from groups underrepresented in STEM. Trainees will participate in sharing data on-line and will present papers at conferences under the mentorship of project staff. They will also participate in the outreach activities by assisting with the development of educational resources, based on the collection, to engage K-12 students and the public.<br/><br/>The specimens targeted by this project are currently stored in far from ideal conditions and, in the case of humidity-sensitive fossils, are actively deteriorating with pyrite disease. To halt this loss of scientific evidence and enable research access of this unique and irreplaceable material, the collection will be secured and rejuvenated by physical preservation in new museum storage according to modern standards and best practices, catalogued in the UIPR's Specify Collections Database, and digitized (high resolution photography). Data will be shared with on-line resources through initiatives such as iDigBio, the Paleobiology Database, GBIF, and the Iowa Digital Library. In the process of securing and preserving the collection, two research studies aimed at improving curatorial and management practices will be conducted. We will develop and test new curation methods for the care of pyritized material and coal ball acetate peels. In addition, we will investigate the geochemical ""fingerprinting"" of unprovenanced coal balls. The results of these studies will inform strategies used by the paleobotanical community. Much of the collection has been inaccessible to research since the 1980s. However, through this project collections will be made accessible to researchers and educators, including Sternberg's Cretaceous Dakota Formation Collection, critical to understanding the early evolution of angiosperms and their role in the changing structure of terrestrial ecosystems; Midwest coal ball collections, providing a unique record of Pennsylvanian floras critical for paleoecological reconstructions of ancient mire forests and fueling a rich array of phylogenetic hypotheses; the Pella Collection, a Pennsylvanian compression flora of significant research value due to its biogeographic, stratigraphic and lithographic context; and Macbride's 1893 Cretaceous Cycadeoid Collection, from the famous Minnekahta site, South Dakota. More information about the collection and its outreach program is available at http://geoscience.clas.uiowa.edu/paleo/.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349322","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1349322","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Critical renovation and revitalization of the University of Iowa Fossil Plant Collection"
"1452010","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Curation and Re-housing of the Entomology Collection of the Sam Noble Museum.","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION|EXP PROG TO STIM COMP RES","8/15/2015","4/22/2016","Katrina Menard","OK","University of Oklahoma Norman Campus","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","7/31/2017","$368,695.00 ","Charles Boring","kmenard@ou.edu","201 Stephenson Parkway","NORMAN","OK","201 Stephenson Parkway, NORMAN, OK","730199705","4053254757","BIO","1197|9150","9150|1197","$0.00 ","An award is made to the University of Oklahoma to support the Sam Noble Museum Recent Invertebrates Collection. This scientific resource documents biodiversity in the state of Oklahoma and beyond, and is one of the largest collections of invertebrates from Oklahoma. This award will support the installation of a mobile storage (compactor) system and provide new entomology cabinets. The project improves infrastructure to adequately and efficiently utilize existing space and increase the potential collection capacity. Collection security and physical access to the specimens is enhanced for researchers and students. The project will integrate with the existing ExplorOlogy Program at the Museum to engage K-12 students in research and encourage the participation of Native Americans, the largest underrepresented group in Oklahoma.<br/><br/>This project is the next phase in a long-term collection revitalization plan for rehousing and re-curating the ca. 400,000 pinned insect specimens at the Sam Noble Museum, the only active entomological collection in Oklahoma. The collection includes one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of Byrrhoidea, an aquatic beetle superfamily. The collection also contains ca. 160,000 Diptera from early and recent surveys, inventories, epidemiology studies, and vector ecology. The collection contains 2,796 primary and secondary insect types that have been cataloged and digitized, as well as historically important collections of dragonflies, butterflies and other beetle groups. Along with the installation of a new compactor system and new cabinets, a reorganization of the collection will be completed, and will incorporate recent knowledge on phylogenetic relationships of insects. In a state where natural habitats have been and continue to be replaced by agriculture, deforestation, grazing, and other land use change, these specimens provide an invaluable record of entomological diversity in the decades before and after statehood (in 1907; Oklahoma was designated as Indian Territory until the major land runs began in 1889). Currently this is the only digitized and readily accessible entomology collection in Oklahoma. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and the public.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1452010","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1452010","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Curation and Re-housing of the Entomology Collection of the Sam Noble Museum."
"1458082","CSBR: Natural History: Curation and Digitization of Significant, Newly Acquired Fish, Amphibian, and Reptile Collections at the North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/1/2015","7/15/2016","Gabriela Hogue","NC","Friends of the North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2018","$499,998.00 ","Jeffrey Beane, Christine Goforth, Bryan Stuart, Michael Norton","gabriela.hogue@naturalsciences.org","11 West Jones Stree","Raleigh","NC","11 West Jones Stree, Raleigh, NC","276011029","9197079847","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Natural history specimen collections play an essential role in science, from facilitating the discovery of new species to understanding how human activities impact global biodiversity. The specimens in these collections are associated with data of interest to researchers, resource managers, educators, and the general public, such as when and where each specimen was found. Most specimens are irreplaceable because they represent a population or species at a time and place in the past. The North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences (NCSM) recently acquired three significant natural history collections of fishes, amphibians, and reptiles that date back to the early 1800's. The NCSM will assimilate these collections to ensure their long-term preservation, and will curate, catalog, verify species identifications, and digitize the specimens to improve their research value and accessibility. Through a custom-built web app, members of the public (citizen scientists) will participate in entering data into the collection database at NCSM, which helps develop public awareness and appreciation for the value and importance of natural history collections. <br/><br/>The three-year project will incorporate the newly acquired collections from the Charleston Museum, Appalachian State University, and the S.W. Ross deep-sea expeditions (University of North Carolina - Wilmington) into the holdings of the North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences (NCSM). Due to the precarious curatorial status and lack of accessible associated data for these three collections, there is an urgent need to secure their future and provide for their full utility. Over 57,000 lots will be curated and digitized, making them research ready and web accessible. Citizen scientists will be recruited to use a web application with validation mechanisms that provide the transcriber with real time feedback. This accelerates the goal of incorporating specimen data into the NCSM collection databases and making the collections globally accessible. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Additional information about the NCSM Fishes, and Amphibian and Reptiles databases is available at http://collections.naturalsciences.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458082","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458082","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Curation and Digitization of Significant, Newly Acquired Fish, Amphibian, and Reptile Collections at the North Carolina State Museum of Natural Sciences"
"1458264","Advances in Wiregrass Georgia: Infrastructural Improvements to Sustain Another Half-Century of Herbarium-Based Research and Teaching","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/1/2015","3/23/2015","James Carter","GA","Valdosta State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2018","$176,917.00 ","","rcarter@valdosta.edu","1500 North Patterson Street","Valdosta","GA","1500 North Patterson Street, Valdosta, GA","316980001","2293337837","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","In the number of vascular plant species, Georgia ranks seventh among the states. Much of this biodiversity resides in the fire-dependent longleaf pine-wiregrass communities and associated seepage slopes and pitcher-plant bogs, sand hills, barrier islands, Carolina bays, tupelo swamps, mesic slopes with Appalachian affinities, and blackland prairies of the Coastal Plain. Georgia is the fourth most rapidly growing state in the U.S. and the fastest in the Southeast, and its native plants and ecosystems are threatened by land development and invasive exotic plants. A collection of more than 70,000 museum-quality specimens, the Valdosta State University Herbarium has major strength and focus on plant diversity of the Georgia Coastal Plain. It is the primary resource for scientific research about plants of this region. The online availability of digital photographs and the data from biological collections greatly increases access to specimens and the potential for using these biodiversity resources in diverse ways, including the assessment of the ecological and conservation status of species and ecosystems, and changing trends in populations of plant species, related to climate change, habitat degradation, and the introduction of exotic species. The virtual access enabled by this project will promote knowledge, use, and recognition of the valuable biodiversity data in the Valdosta State University Herbarium.<br/><br/>This project will enhance infrastructure of the Valdosta State University Herbarium through the installation of a high-density storage system that will increase its specimen holding capacity by about 30%. The new compactor system will provide secure and safe storage of this irreplaceable biodiversity resource and will sustain its growth for the next 15 years. This project will provide funds to mount and digitize 5,000 specimens and provide precise geographical coordinates for nearly 15,000 specimen records, making vitally important specimens and their associated digital photographs and data available to the community of biodiversity researchers and others online. This project will also secure and revitalize the extensive and currently dormant Vanderbilt University Teaching Collections by bringing them to Valdosta State University where they will be used to train future generations of students and biodiversity researchers. The specialized learning promoted through the direct involvement of undergraduate students in curating and digitizing biological collections and in biodiversity research will bring new perspectives on potential careers in science. Students will present their work at scientific meetings, and opportunities provided through this project will enable the participation of under-represented groups. Outreach programs targeting young people at an impressionable age, their teachers, and others will bring issues of biological collections and biodiversity before a large and diverse audience through herbarium tours, informal presentations, and a summer workshop for teachers. All data resulting from this project will be posted online (http://herb.valdosta.edu/) and shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Additional information is available at http://ww2.valdosta.edu/~rcarter/HERB/Herbindex.htm.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458264","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458264","cyan_atom","Advances in Wiregrass Georgia: Infrastructural Improvements to Sustain Another Half-Century of Herbarium-Based Research and Teaching"
"1458300","CSBR: Natural History: Critical Curation for a Critical Collection: The Schuster Herbarium at The Field Museum","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","6/1/2015","5/18/2015","Matt von Konrat","IL","Field Museum of Natural History","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","5/31/2017","$208,640.00 ","","mvonkonrat@fieldmuseum.org","1400 S LAKE SHORE DR","CHICAGO","IL","1400 S LAKE SHORE DR, CHICAGO, IL","606052827","3126657240","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","Natural history specimen collections in museums and academic institutions document species diversity and provide essential information for broad applications ranging from conservation, securing national resources, discovery of new species, to agriculture and medicine. Collections are also an important resource for education and outreach. The Field Museum herbarium houses almost 3 million dried plant and fungi specimens. In 2013, the Museum acquired 35,000 liverwort specimens from the private herbarium of one of the most preeminent botanists of the 20th century. Liverworts are a small group of land plants that are closely related to the more familiar mosses. They play a critical role in our understanding of plant evolution and are ecologically significant. This recent acquisition makes The Field Museum liverwort collection, of over 220,000 specimens, the largest collection in the US and among the top four in the world. The recently acquired liverwort collection is in critical need of curation because of its poor condition. There is vital type material, used to describe and name new species, requiring urgent attention. This project will ensure the preservation of this collection as a national resource for future generations. The project also engages teens in understanding the role collections play in furthering scientific discovery. Families, students, and the general public can also participate as Citizen Scientists and help discover biodiversity by visiting http://microplants.fieldmuseum.org. The project has strong training, outreach and educational components that will improve science instruction and student learning, leveraging museum resources.<br/><br/>The principal objective is to curate the recently acquired private herbarium of an estimated 35,000 liverwort (Marchantiophyta) specimens of the late Prof. Rudolf M. Schuster, one of the most preeminent bryologists in the history of the discipline. The current condition of this collection, ranging from specimens in original newspaper and brown paper bags to original collecting packets, necessitates extensive curation. The bryology research community has been waiting decades to access this important collection in its entirety as many significant specimens remained in private residence and were not made available. There is vital type material that requires urgent attention. The principal objectives include curating, barcoding, databasing and imaging all label data and selected specimens. The timing of these collection improvement activities will leverage and is synergistic with national digitization efforts and international research programs. The digitization effort will provide digital access to this collection, unlock new distribution records and new species to science, and contribute to international databasing activities such as GBIF, The Plant List, and EOL. All data resulting from this project will be shared with iDigBio (https://www.idigbio.org/), ensuring accessibility to researchers and educators. Duplicate specimen material will be distributed to countries of origin that would provide valuable reference material, mainly from under-resourced yet biodiversity rich regions.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458300","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1458300","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Critical Curation for a Critical Collection: The Schuster Herbarium at The Field Museum"
"1601700","Digitization Pen: Augmenting the temporal and geographic range of invertebase through additional collaboration of the Chicago Academy of Sciences","DBI","Digitization","9/15/2016","9/14/2016","Dawn Roberts","IL","Chicago Academy of Sciences","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2018","$76,219.00 ","Erica Krimmel","DRoberts@naturemuseum.org","2430 N. Cannon Drive","Chicago","IL","2430 N. Cannon Drive, Chicago, IL","606142874","7737555150","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","The Chicago Academy of Sciences/Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum (CAS/PNNM) is funded to join the existing Thematic Collections Network (TCN) project ""InvertEBase: Reaching back to see the future: Species-rich invertebrate faunas document causes and consequences of biodiversity shifts,"" which aims to create an easily accessible scientific resource that will inform novel research on changing species occurrences, abundances, and range distribution of invertebrates, specifically mollusks and arthropods. Data for 104,850 specimens will contribute to support research that provide a more comprehensive understanding of invertebrate biodiversity, building a baseline for improved policies and practices regarding land management, restoration, and conservation. Increased accessibility to collections data stemming from this project will also benefit K-12 students and teachers in Chicago through the development of a curriculum component that aligns with Next Generation Science Standards, introducing students to the role of local mollusk species as environmental indicators. The Academy will also collaborate with the Field Museum of Natural History to develop digital and print field guides to common local mollusks. These guides will be widely distributed and will be resource aids for citizen science endeavors.<br/><br/>The Chicago Academy of Sciences was founded in 1857 and quickly established itself as an early leader in collecting and researching regional flora and fauna. This legacy translates into valuable historic species occurrence data for the Midwestern/Western Great Lakes region, particularly within the state of Illinois. This project proposes to digitize and serve data for specimens of invertebrates representative of that geographic region. The efforts of the InvertEBase TCN will aggregate more than 3.9 million digitized specimen records from across the eastern United States. The partnership proposed by CAS/PNNM will contribute an estimated 104,850 records, filling geographic and temporal gaps in the TCN's data. CAS/PNNM will also exploit and improve existing workflows in order to improve efficiencies and cost effectiveness of the digitization process. The project plans to impact K-12 students and teachers in Chicago through the development curricula that align with Next Generation Science Standards. This award is made as part of the National Resource for Digitization of Biological Collections through the Advancing Digitization of Biodiversity Collections Program and all data resulting from this project will be available through iDigBio.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601700","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601700","cyan_tree","Digitization Pen: Augmenting the temporal and geographic range of invertebase through additional collaboration of the Chicago Academy of Sciences"
"1601275","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Frank Krell","CO","Denver Museum of Nature and Science","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$45,681.00 ","Jeff Stephenson","Frank.Krell@dmns.org","2001 Colorado Boulevard","Denver","CO","2001 Colorado Boulevard, Denver, CO","802055732","3033708304","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601275","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601275","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601164","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/4/2016","Richard Brown","MS","Mississippi State University","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2020","$208,729.00 ","","moth@ra.msstate.edu","PO Box 6156","MISSISSIPPI STATE","MS","PO Box 6156, MISSISSIPPI STATE, MS","397629662","6623257404","BIO","6895","6895","$0.00 ","Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are one of the most diverse groups of organisms on the planet: worldwide there are approximately 160,000 species, including around 14,300 species in North America. Moths and butterflies are a conspicuous component of terrestrial habitats and one of the most diverse groups of plant-feeding animals worldwide. This group insect includes species of great economic importance. Their juveniles feed on plants useful to humans, including grains, cotton, tobacco, and timber and shade trees. However, many of the adults are beneficial as pollinators and are icons of conservation as evidenced by Monarch butterflies. Given their economic importance and sheer beauty, butterflies and moths are one of the most abundant insect group in museum collections, but only a fraction of the approximately 15 million specimens in non-federal collections have had their specimen label information digitally recorded and accessible to researchers and educators. Of those specimens that have been digitized, fewer than 10% of the North American Lepidoptera species have sufficient, accessible occurrence data to make reliable predictions about habitat use, susceptibility to global change impacts, or other ecologically important interactions. This project will digitize and integrate existing, unconnected collections of lepidopterans to leverage the outstanding potential of this group of organisms for transformative research, training and outreach. <br/><br/>The Lepidoptera of North America Network (LepNet) comprises 26 research collections that will digitize approximately 2 million specimen records and integrate these with over 1 million existing records. LepNet will digitize 43,280 larval vial records with host plant data, making this the first significant digitization of larvae in North American collections. LepNet will produce ca. 82,000 high-quality images of exemplar species covering 60% of North American lepidopteran species. These images will enhance remote identifications and facilitate systematic, ecological, and global change research. In collaboration with Visipedia, LepNet will create LepSnap, a computer vision tool that can provide automated identifications to the species level. Museum volunteers and student researchers equipped with smartphones will image >132,000 additional research-quality images through LepSnap. Up to 5,000 lepidopteran species will be elevated to a ""research ready"" status suitable for complex, data-driven analyses. LepNet will build on the existing data portal (SCAN) in consolidating data on Lepidoptera to the evolution of lepidopteran herbivores in North America. Access to these data will be increased through integration with iDigBio. Data for a broad range of research, including the evolutionary ecology of Lepidoptera and their host plants in the context of global change processes affecting biogeographic distributions will be generated. The LepXPLOR! program will spearhead education and outreach efforts for 67 existing programs, engaging a diverse, nationwide workforce of 400+ students and 3,500+ volunteers. Overall, LepNet will generate a sustainable social-research network dedicated to the creation and maintenance of a digital collection of North American Lepidoptera specimens (http://www.lep-net.org/).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601164","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601164","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: Lepidoptera of North America Network: Documenting Diversity in the Largest Clade of Herbivores"
"1601729","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway","DBI","Digitization","7/1/2016","5/25/2016","Talia Karim","CO","University of Colorado at Boulder","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$191,548.00 ","","talia.karim@colorado.edu","3100 Marine Street, Room 481","Boulder","CO","3100 Marine Street, Room 481, Boulder, CO","803031058","3034926221","BIO","6895","6895|9150","$0.00 ","Between 65 and 100 million years ago, during the time that dinosaurs walked the earth, a large, tropical seaway covered the central part of what is now North America. This seaway teemed with marine life. Snails and clams lived on the seafloor; ammonites, along with giant mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, sharks, and fish, swam about; at the same time early birds and pterosaurs floated on or flew above the seaway. What remains today is a prolific fossil record that has been collected by paleontologists for over 100 years. Notable fossils from this time period and region are on display at museums around the world. However, the vast bulk of fossils collected from this region are locked away in museum drawers. To provide scientists and the general public access to these fossils and their associated data, this project proposes to digitize invertebrate and vertebrate fossils from this time period and region, making information accessible through searchable electronic databases. Additionally, a variety of online resources illustrating and describing these fossils and mapping their distributions will be developed. A freely accessible online textbook of paleontology will be generated and a website and App will be developed to highlight the appearances, occurrences, and ages of constituent species, to help students and aspiring paleontologists identify and learn about these fossils. The project plans to generate a variety of curricular materials for K-12 education, including 3-D scans of fossils for free download and printed 3-D models for classroom use. Products of this project will also include workshops to engage science teachers and items to augment public programs and exhibits at participating institutions. <br/><br/>This work will greatly increase the scientific value of eight major U.S. museum collections of fossils. The museum collections contain large amounts of data useful for studying what causes marine species to migrate, go extinct, and evolve during a long period of greenhouse climate conditions similar to those our planet may soon experience. These data have relevance for evaluating how global change has and will continue to affect life on earth. An estimated 164,000 specimens collected from thousands of locations, in the region once occupied by the Western Interior Seaway, will be databased and georeferenced. Representatives from each of roughly 1,500 microfossil, invertebrate, and vertebrate species will be imaged. The digitized records will be made available online via individual museum databases, iDigBio, and iDigPaleo. The resultant data will enable scientists to answer questions about how different species interact and ecosystems change in the face of environmental shifts during a key time in the history of life. Moreover, the data will be ideal for use with an assortment of modern quantitative tools -including paleoecological niche modeling (PaleoENM) - and will help improve paleoclimate and paleoceanographic models. Finally, several undergraduate and graduate students will be trained. Results of the project will be published at the following url: www.digitalatlasofancientlife.org.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601729","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1601729","cyan_atom","Digitization TCN: Collaborative Research: The Cretaceous World: Digitizing Fossils to Reconstruct Evolving Ecosystems in the Western Interior Seaway"
"1561515","CSBR: Natural History: Addressing Critical Needs in the Ornithology and Herpetology Collections of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/1/2016","3/17/2016","Carla Cicero","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$247,990.00 ","Rauri Bowie, Carol Spencer, Jimmy McGuire","ccicero@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","CSBR: Natural History: Addressing Critical Collection Needs at UC - Berkeley's Museum of Vertebrate Zoology (MVZ).<br/><br/>An award is made to the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology (MVZ), a center for research and education at the University of California, Berkeley. Its collections of over 700,000 specimens are used for research, education, and to inform conservation decisions. Implementation of the planned activities will secure this biodiversity data resource for the advancement of scientific research. Specifically, the value and security of the MVZ collections will be enhanced through upgrades to the storage conditions of the ornithology collection. Also, rare specimens and associated information will be cataloged and made accessible, potentially increasing their use in research and informing resource management decisions. The collection includes species that are protected and poorly represented in most museum collections. Additionally, some samples are important for understanding disease spread, reproduction, physiology, and population changes over time. The project will leverage existing outreach efforts at the museum and continue the museum's tradition of student mentorship and training. This will, in part, be achieved through a workshop on the curation and use of museum data. Students and postgraduates will be trained in curation methods, modern collection management and data standards.<br/><br/>This project has two major goals: (1) Enhance pest protection of the MVZ Ornithology collection by replacing a subset of the bird specimen cases to protect against future infestations. This aspect of the project focuses on passerine skins as they comprise the bulk of the MVZ bird collection, are the most actively growing part of the collection, and are most heavily used by researchers. The work performed will also involve reorganization of the collection to reflect current published taxonomies, facilitating its use for research and teaching. (2) Provide long-term security of Ornithology and Herpetology specimens and data by cataloging 14 special acquisitions. Over 3,000 specimens in Ornithology and over 19,000 in Herpetology have been accepted through special donations and specimen transfers of orphaned collections since 1995. These acquisitions include: unique series or specimen preparations not found in other museum collections; specimens of historic and/or geographic relevance to NSF-funded research aimed at documenting faunal change over the past century; and rare and/or endangered and globally diverse amphibian specimens used for studying the effects of deadly chytrid fungus. These acquisitions contain critically important, but currently inaccessible data for scientific research and discovery and they enhance knowledge about biodiversity and environmental change through species, data, and geographic areas that are underrepresented in museum collections. By cataloging these collections, the specimens will be secured long-term and available more quickly to the scientific community. The MVZ is a leader in biodiversity data projects, and all data will be made available globally through Arctos, VertNet, iDigBio, GBIF, and other data portals. Broader impacts of this project include a webcast Digital Curation and Data Quality Workshop and new public displays that further the MVZ's mission. Plans are to develop new community outreach across multiple age groups, and recruit and train new students, postgraduates, and interns. The principal investigators will mentor and/or employ 20 individuals and train an additional 35 participants through the workshop and webcast.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561515","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561515","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Addressing Critical Needs in the Ornithology and Herpetology Collections of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology"
"1521928","From the Field to the Folder: Workshop on Herbarium Specimen Curation and Best Practices","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","2/15/2015","2/12/2015","Wendy Zomlefer","GA","University of Georgia Research Foundation Inc","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","1/31/2017","$16,000.00 ","","wendyz@plantbio.uga.edu","310 East Campus Rd","ATHENS","GA","310 East Campus Rd, ATHENS, GA","306021589","7065425939","BIO","1197","","$0.00 ","The vision of CSBR is preservation of biological collections in the U.S. that will lead to new discoveries through research and better understanding and appreciation of biodiversity through improved education and outreach, resulting in improved environmental and economic policies. This workshop seeks to engage students, women and individual from groups under-represented in STEM. The activities proposed will broaden participation by targeting curators and managers at MSIs in Georgia and adjacent states.<br/><br/>This award will support participant costs and supplies for a workshop for collections managers and curators with the goal consolidating efforts of the Georgia Herbarium Alliance Consortium. The workshop would provide participants with hands-on training in best practices in workflows that are critical to collections security, preservation and digitization. In addition to targeting herbaria within Georgia, the workshop seeks to enhance practices in neighboring states and use expertise from iDigBio personnel in training activities. These activities strengthen the infrastructure for biodiversity research, goals of the Collections in Support of Biological Research (CSBR) and the Advancing Digitization of Biodiversity Collections (ADBC) programs. The CSBR program supports collection security and preservation while the ADBC program increase visibility and access to data and images for millions of biological specimens through digitization. These data are made available to the research community, government agencies, students, educators, and the general public. Improving the ability of natural history collections managers and curators in Georgia and surrounding states will strengthen this resource and include the best practices learned as part of the normal workflow in their facilities.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1521928","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1521928","cyan_atom","From the Field to the Folder: Workshop on Herbarium Specimen Curation and Best Practices"
"1561429","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Unlocking the Fossil Cabinet: Improving Conservation and Accessibility of Invertebrate Paleontology Collections at the Natural History Museum of","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","9/15/2016","8/26/2016","Austin Hendy","CA","Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History Foundation","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","8/31/2018","$224,243.00 ","Jann Vendetti","ahendy@nhm.org","900 Exposition Boulevard","Los Angeles","CA","900 Exposition Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA","900074057","2137443301","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","An award is made to the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County (NHM) that will support the curation, digitization, and accessibility of specimens and data held in the Invertebrate Paleontology Collection (LACMIP), with three distinct and essential ojbectives. First, historic collections of Pliocene-Pleistocene age fossils require extensive physical curation in order to be incorporated into an ongoing cataloguing and imaging initiative. Second, extensive collections of Cretaceous fossils from California will be properly curated and digitized for the first time. Third, within these holdings is an important private collection of Cretaceous and Miocene age fossils acquired by LACMIP, which will be curated and made accessible to researchers. Once properly housed, catalogued and photographed, all three collections will provide critical reference specimens for understanding past climatic, biogeographic, and environmental changes in the Western United States. The project will also allow continued growth of a program that provides hands-on training of student interns from nearby under-served universities and community colleges and STEM educators from local schools. Ultimately, the physical curation of more than 1.2 million specimens are improved, and the addition of 156,000 specimen records and 1,300 images will make the collections more accessible and useful for research.<br/><br/>The collections that will benefit from this award span much of the last 90 million years of geological history, environmental change, and evolution in California, and include representatives of most major invertebrate groups. This award will secure the future of these collections, increase their physical and digital accessibility, and for the first time, make them publically available for teaching, research, and outreach. More than 1.1 million Pliocene-Pleistocene fossils collected during the 1870s-1930s will be moved to archival trays and vials to permit their digitization. Nearly 126,000 Cretaceous fossils collected from California over the last 80 years will undergo substantial curatorial improvement, including rehousing, cataloguing, and digital imaging. A collection of some 30,000 specimens and associated stratigraphic data assembled from local Miocene and Cretaceous rocks will be unpacked and made accessible in new cabinets, housed in archival materials, and digitized. All data resulting from digitization of these collections will be archived in KE-EMu, a collections management system that integrates all of the NHM's biological, historical, and anthropological collections. Specimen records and digital images will also be fully integrated into existing data networks (e.g., iDigBio, GBIF, and the PBDB). The project will make these significant collections readily available to the public, thus providing a stimulus for research and resources for education. The resulting data will substantially increase accessible information about Cretaceous, Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene invertebrate biodiversity of the Eastern Pacific. Such data fills an existing gap, and will be of broad research value to paleontologists and malacologists in studies of environmental and climatic change, biogeography and paleoecology, and for systematic and molecular biologists. Specimen records and images will be discoverable from the LACMIP on-line portal (collections.nhm.org) and the national resource for Advancing Digitization of Biodiversity Collections (www.idigbio.org).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561429","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561429","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History Collections: Unlocking the Fossil Cabinet: Improving Conservation and Accessibility of Invertebrate Paleontology Collections at the Natural History Museum of"
"1541028","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API","ICER","EarthCube","9/1/2015","6/21/2016","Lisa Park Boush","CO","Geological Society of America Today","Standard Grant","Eva E. Zanzerkia","8/31/2017","$82,734.00 ","","lisa.park_boush@uconn.edu","3300 PENROSE PL","Boulder","CO","3300 PENROSE PL, Boulder, CO","803011806","3033571000","GEO","8074","7433","$0.00 ","Understanding future environmental change requires researchers to access and integrate data from the geological and biological sciences, in order to answer questions about how environmental change will affect life on Earth. In many cases the data needed to answer these questions already exists but, unfortunately, technology has not kept pace with research needs. This places increasing demands on researchers, who have to search for and download data from multiple separate online databases; compile published information from many different literature sources; and track down specimens housed in museum and other collections scattered around the world. The time needed to search and retrieve this information is enormous and, once found, the data often have to be standardized before they can be used. This project will tackle this problem by developing software tools to connect three established, well-supported, and critically important data sources: the Paleobiology Database (PBDB, paleontological, literature based), iDigPaleo (paleontological, specimen based) and iDigBio (neontological, specimen based). This project will allow users of any one of these databases to access and query the others at the same time, returning a much richer, combined set of data to the user. Connecting these resources will open up a whole host of research questions that are currently difficult to answer, even by multiple researchers working as a team. The development of this system will allow scientists to ask and answer new research questions affecting fields as diverse as biogeographic/niche modeling, systematics, functional morphology, evolutionary biology, ecology, climatology, conservation biology, oceanography, and petroleum geology. This project will fundamentally change the nature of the research questions that can be addressed by the scientific community.<br/><br/>The connectivity between modern and fossil, and specimen and literature-based resources does not currently exist. The digital infrastructure provided by the composite ePANDDA application programming interfaces (APIs) will streamline and normalize data acquisition, including retrieval from disparate data sources, and will facilitate coordination with future data initiatives. Rather than creating another portal for the aggregation of data, ePANDDA will unify results that normally would have required multiple searches on numerous platforms. For the researcher, this eliminates a significant barrier to data collection and processing. Researchers will now have the ability to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries to study earth system processes and the nature of biotic response to environmental change across both space and time. Linking publications to specimens will enrich the potential of museum collections and augment their value for both research and education. The ePANDDA project also provides an opportunity to build collaborative programs that leverage existing education and outreach activities in addition to the primary research goals.","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1541028","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1541028","golden_atom","EarthCube IA: Collaborative Proposal: Enhancing Paleontological and Neontological Data Discovery API"
"1557428","CSBR: Natural History: Preservation of Carnegie Museum of Natural History's Herpetology Collection","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","7/15/2016","7/20/2016","Jose Padial","PA","Carnegie Institute","Continuing grant","Reed Beaman","6/30/2019","$222,802.00 ","Gretchen Anderson, Lauren Giarratani, Stephen Rogers","padialj@carnegiemnh.org","4400 Forbes Avenue","Pittsburgh","PA","4400 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA","152134080","4126223232","BIO","1197","1197","$0.00 ","This project will improve the security, preservation, and accessibility of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History Herpetological Collection, a world-class resource of over 235,000 specimens. This collection includes large historical holdings from areas that have undergone drastic environmental change or may face important change in the future. Recent research citing the collection exemplifies how new and unpredicted scientific paradigms, environmental issues, and technological advances require the existence of extensive and accessible historical scientific collections. Genetics, molecular phylogenetics, museomics, biomechanics, global change, emerging diseases, and invasive species are research areas for which specimens from this collection have recently been used. Based on recommendations from recent assessments that identified a number of urgent challenges affecting the collection and its related data, Carnegie Museum of Natural History has developed an extensive plan to preserve and increase access to the collection, ensuring that this important resource is sustained and able to support research for generations to come. <br/><br/>Ranking tenth among US collections of its kind, the Herpetology Collection at Carnegie Museum of Natural History spans more than 100 years of scientific collecting in 170 countries. It includes 148 holotypes and 2,007 paratypes (specimens of special scientific and historic significance used in the original species descriptions), specimens of six extinct and 78 critically endangered species, and one of the world's largest turtle collections. Through this award, Carnegie Museum of Natural History will: a) optimize storage space to improve curation and access and mitigate preservation risks due to overcrowding and suboptimal containers; b) digitize vouchered archival data related to specific specimens, providing vital context for the collection; c) accession and catalog ca. 12,000 specimens, georeference locality data, and make data and images of holotypes and paratypes digitally accessible; d) update taxonomy throughout the Section and reorganize the collection accordingly; e) enhance the public's appreciation of the value of collections and research by developing new collections-based programs and exhibits. Ensuring the long-term preservation and availability of the Section's specimens and related data is key for supporting future research efforts. Likewise, digitizing important archival records will expand the relevance of the collection for studies in ecology, systematics, conservation, and the history of natural history collections. Updating taxonomy and georeferencing additional records will enhance the precision of biodiversity data, improving usefulness to the global research community. In addition, collaborative planning will lead to the implementation of new educational programming and two new museum exhibits designed to enhance the public's appreciation of the value of collections for research and increase understanding of the collection's importance in the public's day-to-day life. Project results are available on line (www.carnegiemnh.org/projects/alcohol-house), and data will be shared and made available through iDigBio (www.idigbio.org), VertNet, and the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1557428","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1557428","cyan_tree","CSBR: Natural History: Preservation of Carnegie Museum of Natural History's Herpetology Collection"
"1561315","CSBR: Natural History: Securing Paleobotanical Collections at the University of Kansas: Evolution of Seed Plants and Antarctic Fossil Plants","DBI","BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH COLLECTION","4/15/2016","3/18/2016","Edith Taylor","KS","University of Kansas Center for Research Inc","Standard Grant","Reed Beaman","3/31/2018","$495,455.00 ","Rudolph Serbet, Thomas Taylor","etaylor@ku.edu","2385 IRVING HILL RD","LAWRENCE","KS","2385 IRVING HILL RD, LAWRENCE, KS","660457568","7858643441","BIO","1197","1197|9150","$0.00 ","The University of Kansas (KU) Biodiversity Institute includes world-class systematic research collections and is one of the leading university museums in the world. KU has an extensive history of paleontological research and collection stewardship back to the late 1800s. Paleontological collections represent an invaluable resource for studying past biodiversity and tracing the evolution and relationships of groups of organisms through time. Such collections represent an irreplaceable record of past life and their proper maintenance is especially crucial in cases where collection sites are no longer accessible, where they contain evolutionarily important organisms, or represent a unique record of Earth history. This project will provide funding for a compactor storage system for fossil plant specimens that are currently in unsuitable storage and inaccessible. The KU Paleobotany Division has a long, successful history of outreach programs that use specimens from the collection. Activities that this project will engage in include: recruitment/retention of underrepresented minority and female graduate/undergraduate students and postdoctoral scholars; workshops for middle school girls using female role models and hands-on science activities; subject-based (paleobotany, environmental change, Antarctica) workshops for various groups (TRIO program for inner-city students from Kansas City; home-schooled students; gifted students from Topeka PS); participation in Natural History Museum Public Education programs (fossil identification day, Darwin Day); collection tours; public lectures; permanent and temporary displays in the Museum; and teaching paleobotanical techniques to school children and the public. This project will include a Museum Studies student who will develop a virtual exhibit based on the newly accessible fossils.<br/><br/>The paleobotany collections have greatly exceeded current space in Haworth Hall (biology labs, offices) and specimens are scattered in storage areas and the paleobotany research laboratory. Specimens will be moved into newly renovated space on West Campus, where many other Natural History collections are housed. The Paleobotany Division contains more than 100,000 specimens. KU houses the largest collection of Antarctic fossil plants in the world. These fossils provide calibration points for molecular clocks, molecular phylogenies, and extinction and dispersal events. The current project includes Permian, Triassic, and Jurassic fossil plants from Antarctica, and orphaned collections from Ohio University (OU), which were moved to KU in 2012. The latter includes Paleozoic plants from Appalachia and the Midcontinent, as well as Oxroad Bay, Scotland. Together with collections already at KU, this acquisition forms an unparalleled resource of the history of seed plants, from the earliest accepted fossils to the evolution of modern groups. The OU collection also includes plants from rare, seasonally dry (""upland"") floras from North American communities during glacial times in Gondwana; some of these sites are no longer accessible for collection. The Antarctic fossils that need proper storage represent a unique, anatomically detailed record of Paleozoic - Mesozoic plants and fungi at a time before and after end-Permian extinctions - the largest extinctions in Earth history. The Jurassic plants represent the only substantial deposit of Jurassic plants on continental Antarctica and are an important record of plant diversity and paleoclimate at the time of the breakup of Gondwana. Results of project will be shared with iDigBio (idigbio.org) and made available online (biodiversity.ku.edu/paleobotany).","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561315","http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1561315","cyan_atom","CSBR: Natural History: Securing Paleobotanical Collections at the University of Kansas: Evolution of Seed Plants and Antarctic Fossil Plants"