"AwardNumber#long","Title","NSFOrganization","Program(s)#multi","StartDate#date","LastAmendmentDate","PrincipalInvestigator","State","Organization","AwardInstrument","ProgramManager","EndDate","AwardedAmountToDate#number","Co-PIName(s)","PIEmailAddress","OrganizationStreet","OrganizationCity","OrganizationState","Address#textlocation","OrganizationZip","OrganizationPhone","NSFDirectorate","ProgramElementCode(s)","ProgramReferenceCode(s)","ARRAAmount","Abstract#long","#img","#name","#href"
"1421090","Science of Broadening Participation: Stratification in Academic Career Trajectories","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","6/13/2016","Roberta Spalter-Roth","DC","American Sociological Assoc","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$391,270.00 ","Jean Shin, Marie Mora","spalter-roth@asanet.org","1430 K Street, NW","Washington","DC","1430 K Street, NW, Washington, DC","200052529","2023839005","SBE","1331","8050","$0.00 ","SES-1421090<br/>Roberta Spalter-Roth<br/>Marie Mora<br/>Jean Shin<br/>American Sociological Association<br/><br/>The investigators will complete research that will better theorize and contribute to better a understanding of the experiences of underrepresented minorities (URMs), especially black and Hispanic scholars in higher education in sociology and economics. The study is interdisciplinary in that it compares URM career trajectories in two STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) disciplines (sociology and economics), and integrates major theoretical concepts from each. The results can suggest strategies to broaden STEM participation for URMs and increase the likelihood of their successful academic career trajectories. <br/><br/>Successful career trajectories in these two STEM disciplines are normatively measured as full professorships at research-extensive universities. As such, a major purpose of the study is to measure specific aspects of the stratification processes and outcomes that may create or re-create inequalities in the academic career trajectories of underrepresented minorities in two disciplines: sociology and economics. As a result of this effort, the researchers will develop two databases for ""evidence-based"" evaluations as well as a model for data collection and analysis that will benefit other science disciplines. The study, conducted by a diverse research team of sociologists and economists, uses a mixed-methods approach to develop theory and measure trajectories of scholars from both disciplines. It will test the interrelationships between several theoretical concepts that the investigators argue are aspects of stratification processes, and whether they are associated with career stratification. The key theoretical concepts that will be tested include the following: human capital and social capital including professional networks and marginality to those networks; ""two worlds"" and the ""color line"" for racial and ethnic minorities; and the intersectionality of race, ethnicity, and gender. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts <br/><br/>The study findings are important, first, because of the emphasis on bringing URMs into STEM disciplines so that they can teach and mentor an increasingly diverse body of students as well as bring new perspectives and paradigms to research and policy. These new perspectives may have the effect of increasing U.S. innovation and competitiveness, as well as increasing the number of U.S. participants in specific STEM fields, including the social, behavioral, and economic sciences. Second, given that the number of adjunct faculty is on the rise at many institutions, who will obtain and succeed in tenure-track positions? A greater representation of URM scholars as full-time, tenured faculty is particularly important in light of changing demographics in the U.S. population. Combined, blacks and Hispanics represent nearly 30 percent of the entire population, but only 9.6 percent of all full-time faculty members in degree-granting institutions. The study will evaluate current intervention programs designed to increase participation (recruitment) and bolster careers (retention) of URMs in the academy, but also propose new interventions and strategies. The research results will be widely disseminated in order to provide insights into how to improve programs and policies across STEM disciplines, based on interdisciplinary theory from sociology and economics. The study will also train a group of undergraduate and graduate students to aid in carrying out all aspects of the study, including exposure to multiple research methods and types of data analysis.","crimson_atom","Science of Broadening Participation: Stratification in Academic Career Trajectories",
"1602481","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Rural migrant workers and periods of structural change.","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/28/2016","Jeffrey Lucas","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","4/30/2017","$11,946.00 ","Yu Guo","jlucas2@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Rural migrant workers and periods of structural change<br/><br/>Sociology is interested in the distinction between individual free-will and socially-patterned ways of thinking; what is referred to as the structure-agency issue. This dissertation studies the relationship between social structure and individuals' consciousness contrasting two social theorists' (Bourdieu and Elias) theories about this society-individual relationship. This dissertation proposes that both theories have explanatory power but under different circumstances. The research site will allow the researcher to investigate how rural workers who move to urban settings start to think about things differently. This setting will allow the researcher to compare the two theories- one, Bourdieu, that sees individuals' thinking being determined by their social position; second, Elias' views of consciousness as formed in processes of people's interconnection and interactions. To investigate the competing theories, the researcher will conduct a fieldwork study of rural migrant workers in China and, through participant observation and interviews learn how their thinking changes in very different environments. This research contributes to integrating two sociological theories as well as addressing theoretical debates about structure and agency. It also contributes to broadening the contribution of sociology to other fields such as history.<br/><br/>Two questions thus lead this dissertation project: 1) How does Bourdieu's and Elias's mechanisms respectively operate in different social situations? 2) How do the two mechanisms co-function to shape people's consciousness of social reality? Answer these questions allows investigation of the fundamental structure-agency relationship that is a core sociological concern. These theoretical inquiries are pursued through a fieldwork study of rural migrant workers in China who are appropriate cases for two reasons. First, they experience multiple dominations as a disadvantaged group in China making it fruitful to study their consciousness of their social situations. Second, as they undergo dramatic changes when migrating to become city workers, their complicated experiences offers a rich opportunity to empirically apply both Bourdieu's and Elias's models. The researcher will conduct one year of fieldwork in two factories in east China, including both participant observation and in-depth interviews to collect data on the migrant workers' consciousness formation in their daily work and life settings and to discuss how they are thinking about their structural situations, linking the responses more tightly to the theoretical models. The proposed research has the potential to advance scientific knowledge in at least three ways. First, it engages two important sociological theories in an effort to integrate them. Second, the research can make important contributions to the efforts at articulating the society-agency relationships that lie at the heart of sociology. Third, the work has the capacity to speak to literatures in disciplines outside of sociology (e.g., history) that are also concerned with relationships between structure and agency.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Rural migrant workers and periods of structural change.",
"957962","Collaborative Research: Understanding the Economic Crisis and it's Social Impacts through Postdoctoral Fellowships","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2010","8/10/2016","David Grusky","CA","Stanford University","Continuing grant","Patricia White","2/28/2017","$382,938.00 ","David Grusky","grusky@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","1331","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","SES-0957962<br/>Karen S. Cook<br/>David Grusky<br/>Stanford University<br/><br/>SES-0957200<br/>Victor Nee<br/>Kim Weeden<br/>Cornell University<br/><br/>SES-0957900<br/>Paul DiMaggio<br/>Princeton University<br/><br/>SES-0957923<br/>Bruce Western<br/>Harvard University<br/><br/>SES-0958093<br/>Neil Fligstein<br/>University of California-Berkeley<br/><br/>SES-0956546<br/>Erik Wright<br/>Joel Rogers<br/>University of Wisconsin-Madison<br/><br/> The United States and the world economy are currently experiencing the most extensive and intense downturn since the Great Depression. A six-university team hosted by Centers for the study of economic sociology and social inequality associated with the Sociology Departments at Cornell, University of California at Berkeley, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford and the University of Wisconsin that share outstanding reputations and strong track records in economic sociology and related specialties will complete research on the causes and consequences of this historic economic crisis. The recession itself presents a fundamental challenge to the economic sociology of efficient markets and to conventional understandings of concepts like risk and trust that are central to all of the social sciences. It is also likely to have important effects on social inequality -- not just inequality in income, but in economic behaviors like savings, job-hunting, and investments in education, as well as such outcomes as health and wellness, fertility and divorce, and criminal victimization. The project will support twelve postdoctoral research fellows who will work with faculty at the six universities to complete independent research while receive training and mentoring, that will cast light on the causes of the crisis and its impact on social inequality and on U.S. institutions.<br/><br/>Broader Impact: The research will help to inform our understanding of the social consequences of the recession. Specifically, the project will bring a sociological perspective to three pressing questions: (1) how did the financial crisis happen, (2) what are the social consequences of the recession, and how is its impacts distributed, and (3) what are the policy responses to the economic crisis and what are their consequences? The project will also provide a career development opportunity for a diverse set of new Sociology Ph.D.s at a time of declining endowments in the private university sector and declining tax revenues in the states. By providing a footing for a group of young scholars and enabling them to contribute to our understanding of the very crisis that has challenged the labor market into which they are moving, the investigators hope to prevent the loss of talent that the field has experienced in previous severe recessions, and to ensure that graduate-training institutions have a robust and consistent pipeline of new talent as faculty hired in the 1970s and 1980s move towards retirement.","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: Understanding the Economic Crisis and it's Social Impacts through Postdoctoral Fellowships",
"1602772","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Intern Experiences and Pathways to Labor Market Entry","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/28/2016","Steven Lopez","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2018","$12,000.00 ","Corey Pech","lopez.137@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602772<br/>Steven Lopez<br/>Corey Pech<br/>Ohio State University<br/><br/>Internships have become a ubiquitous component of job training. Gaining an understanding of when interns are exploited, and when they are valued, is essential to understanding labor market entry. Previous studies of internships focus on industry case studies. This dissertation is the first comparative study of majors and internship sites to address the question -- under what conditions are internships precarious work and under what conditions are they a stepping stone to a career? Answering this question has application to both the social sciences and national discourse about the economy, speaking to issues salient to policymakers, corporations, and a concerned citizenry. This project will help individuals and institutions make better decisions about utilizing internships. <br/><br/>This study makes use of a longitudinal interview research design with two waves of interviews. Wave one involves interviewing college seniors in four majors about their internships. These are Business/Operations and Logistics; Industrial Engineering; English; and Communications. Wave two follows up one year later. This design links internship to college major and labor market entry. This study makes contributions to the sociology of work, economic sociology, and the sociology of education. Precarity and insecurity of work is a much-discussed topic in the sociology of work. This study will examine how interns are used by employers and the effects of their labor process on interns' experiences and outcomes. In theory less precarity should increase chances in the labor market, but economic sociology suggests other factors might be more important than the content of the internship. This study will add to knowledge on how non-labor process factor, such social networks or sociability with coworkers, affect internship experiences and outcomes. This study can also make contributions to the sociology of education. Competing theories on labor market entry such as whether majors build human capital or act as a screening device will be adjudicated by this research.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Intern Experiences and Pathways to Labor Market Entry",
"1257065","A Sociology of Testing, Diagnosis and Autism Spectrum Disorder","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","4/1/2013","7/16/2013","Douglas Maynard","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","3/31/2017","$476,869.00 ","","maynard@ssc.wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331, 7603","7567","$0.00 ","Introduction<br/><br/>The purpose of this project is to study the testing and diagnosis of children who are being considered for an Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Since the early 1990s, there has been a huge upsurge in ASD diagnosis. Sociological and epidemiological studies can account for much of the increased prevalence. However, little attention has been paid to the concrete ways in which clinicians and the child are engaged in the examination process. Attention also needs to be given to what happens after completing the exams with a child; how clinicians consult with one another about their findings, determine a diagnosis, and present that diagnosis to parents and other caretakers. Such considerations should be extended to how family, legal, economic and other factors affect diagnosis.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit<br/><br/>There are three parts to our study corresponding to the three sets of concerns indicated above. The first aim is to do a sociology of testing, understanding the organized social interactions and collaborative skills by which clinicians and children engage in examination tasks. The second aim focuses on the narrations associated with what clinicians have found in testing, the discussion of those findings and attempts resolve any discrepancies among themselves, and the presentation of their diagnostic conclusions to family members and other caretakers such as educators. The third aim is to explore how, in their testing and diagnostic determinations, clinicians and caretakers may orient to social contexts surrounding autism diagnosis including family, legal, educational, administrative, and economic factors. <br/><br/>Potential Broader Impacts<br/><br/>This study of interactions in the testing and diagnostic process potentially means better understanding of ability/disability and greater inclusion of ASD individuals in society. It additionally provides for the discovery of unanticipated avenues and future research into the causes, consequences and treatment of ASD. Finally, the project also involves the training of graduate student sociologists as Science and Technology Scholars concerned with ASD.","crimson_battery","A Sociology of Testing, Diagnosis and Autism Spectrum Disorder",
"1602895","Doctoral Dissertation Research: New Therapies and the Multiplication of Disease Diagnoses","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/15/2016","5/5/2016","Gil Eyal","NY","Columbia University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$6,754.00 ","Moran Levy","ge2027@columbia.edu","2960 Broadway","NEW YORK","NY","2960 Broadway, NEW YORK, NY","100276902","2128546851","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602895<br/>Gil Eyal<br/>Moran Levy<br/>Columbia University<br/><br/>Between 1950 and 1990 cancer research underwent a radical transformation. Drug screening programs in the 1950s tested single compounds on multiple cancers in heterogeneous patient samples. Yet in the decades that followed the first chemotherapy trials, researchers turned to studies of narrow subcategories of cancer (e.g. metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women) to test complex therapies involving surgery, radiotherapy and drug combinations. The shift between these research designs, that are practically mirror images of one another, poses puzzling questions: How has cancer research shifted its structure and orientation? How and when did 'cancer' stop being a meaningful clinical unit? How did multiple cancer diagnoses emerge and come to replace it?<br/><br/>This project examines the structuring of cancer research to explain the multiplication of cancer diagnoses. The researchers hypothesize that the effort to improve anticancer drugs through clinical trials was a mechanism for creating new diagnoses. The introduction of statistical expertise pressured cancer scientists to homogenize patient samples so that they could compare treatment and control groups that were as similar as possible. This compelled researchers to narrow down trials' recruitment criteria and to transform diagnostic schemes. The study examines whether prognostic variables used in clinical trials to predict patients' responses to treatment turned into refined recruitment criteria in subsequent trials and were eventually translated into new diagnoses. The increasing specification of diagnosis limited patient pools and slowed down the recruitment of patients that met inclusion criteria. The researchers thus also hypothesize that diagnosis specification increased the collaboration between institutions that could recruit patients, reinforced the need for standardization and sophisticated statistical tools, allowing researchers to conduct multicenter trials and to work with small patient samples, and reinforced specialization in oncology. The researchers conduct comprehensive archival research and analyze materials from all major institutions involved in cancer research: The National Cancer Institute, The Food and Drug Administration, Medicare, Cooperative Research Groups from across the U.S, The U.S. National Library of Medicine and The Mary Lasker Paper Collection.<br/><br/>This project offers an important contribution both to sociology of diagnosis and to sociology of standardization and evidence-based-medicine. Sociology of diagnosis asks how are new diagnoses created. The researchers suggest a novel mechanism that drives the creation of diagnoses. That is, medical drugs create opportunities and incentives to develop new diagnoses not only through pharmaceutical marketing and through medicalization of previously non-medical conditions, but also that drugs function to extract data that serve to split up patient populations and existing diagnoses. Sociology of evidence-based-medicine asks how clinical trials became the 'gold standard' of biomedicine. This project suggests that the endogenous effects of clinical trials acted to reinforce trials' golden status by fragmenting diagnosis clinical trials restructured cancer research and reinforced the need for standardization and statistical expertise. This study also offers a critical contribution to the understanding of how scientific procedures (homogenization) interact with exclusion and with disparities in the production of medical knowledge about different population groups.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: New Therapies and the Multiplication of Disease Diagnoses",
"1602931","Doctoral Dissertation Research: State-level factors and passage of Right-to-Work laws","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2016","3/14/2016","Jan (Josh) Pacewicz","RI","Brown University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$11,743.00 ","Johnnie Lotesta","Jan_Mateusz_Pacewicz@brown.edu","BOX 1929","Providence","RI","BOX 1929, Providence, RI","29129002","4018632777","SBE","1331","1331, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","As of 2015, twenty-five states have passed Right-to-Work (RTW) laws prohibiting union security agreements and governing collective bargaining rights. Existing literature expects that states with relatively high levels of unionization and economic development will arrive at the same policy outcome, rejecting RTW proposals. These factors do not explain divergent RTW outcomes in states with similar economies such as those of the Industrial Midwest. In both the 1950s and 2010s, highly-unionized, industrial Midwestern states like Indiana, Michigan and Ohio faced legislative and referendum proposals for RTW. Despite similar conditions, these states arrived at different policy outcomes. Indiana passed RTW in 1957 and 2012; Ohio voted against it in 1958 and 2011, and Michigan failed to introduce RTW in the 1950s, but passed it in a surprising victory in 2012. These cases challenge expectations from existing literature and pose the following question: why have Indiana, Michigan and Ohio followed divergent paths through right-to-work, despite sharing similar political and socioeconomic profiles? That is the question this research seeks to answer. Answering these questions will contribute to the sociology of labor and understanding organizational processes and state practices that shape policy outcomes, a topic of concern for policy practitioners, academics and the public alike. Further, the research will result in a data repository that will be a rich resource for future scholars of these topics. <br/><br/>Given that the interest groups who won Right-to-Work (RTW) contests in Indiana, Michigan and Ohio formed strategic partnerships with state parties, this project hypothesizes that these party coalitions explain divergent RTW outcomes across the three cases. Drawing from recent work in political science, the sociology of political parties, and the sociology of knowledge and expertise, this project proposes that party coalitions shaped RTW outcomes by building broad bases of organizational support, deploying campaign language that targeted multiple, disparate constituencies, and establishing the cognitive frameworks appropriate for evaluating RTW. This project tests these hypotheses through a comparative-historical analysis of RTW battles in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio in the 1950s and 2010s. In so doing, this dissertation promises to make three important contributions. First, it will contribute to the RTW literature by providing explanation for otherwise anomalous cases. Second, it will contribute to the sociology of parties by specifying the mechanisms through parties shape policy outcomes. Third, it will facilitate future research by preserving all original source materials in a digital repository, creating a storehouse of information from which researchers, policy practitioners and the public may learn about RTW, the labor movement, and political parties in the United States. In these ways, this dissertation promises to deepen our understanding of the organizational processes and state practices that shape policy options and outcomes in the public sphere, a topic of concern for policy practitioners, academics and the public alike.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: State-level factors and passage of Right-to-Work laws",
"1528190","RUI: Community Bank and Credit Union Effects on Communities and Local Economies in the US during the Great Recession","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","6/16/2015","Marc Schneiberg","OR","Reed College","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$170,824.00 ","","marc.schneiberg@reed.edu","3203 S E Woodstock Blvd","Portland","OR","3203 S E Woodstock Blvd, Portland, OR","972028138","5037711112","SBE","1331","9178, 9251, SMET, 9229","$0.00 ","Marc Schneiberg<br/>SES-1528190<br/>Reed College<br/><br/>This study examines how community banks and credit unions helped communities and local economies weather the Great Recession. Over the past three decades, American banking abandoned its traditional roots and practices. As it shed regulatory oversight, it concentrated assets in a handful of giant, national or global banking corporations, and shifted away from ""boring banking"" practices (taking deposits and making and holding loans) toward market-based banking involving derivatives trading and the creation and sale of new financial instruments. With these changes came a growing disconnect between banks and local economies, and an extraordinary run up in debt and risk within the financial system, setting the stage for crisis. Yet community banks and credit unions continued to play vital roles in the US economy, providing consumers, small business and working families with access to nearly 14,000 smaller, locally owned and operated, and even cooperatively organized banks. These institutions participated less, if at all, in derivatives and securities trading. They sustained close ties to their communities, and remained committed and organized internally to serving clients and those communities rather than just pursuing shareholder value, and related to local economies differently from banks like CITI or JP Morgan Chase. Using new data on the American economy from 1994 to 2013, this study will analyze the effects of community banks and credit unions on communities, local economies, and their capacities to sustain employment, vibrant small business sectors, new business formation, and recovery. Through these analyses, this study will contribute new knowledge about how different kinds of banking and the organization of finance affect community resilience and local economic performance in the face of crises. It will also identify new avenues for reform, including supplementing traditional regulation of ""too-big-to-fail"" banks with policies that support smaller, more local community based and cooperative financial institutions. <br/><br/>This study will develop and test hypotheses about the effects of community banks and credit unions on four key outcomes within local economies in the United States: new business formations, the size and changes in the share of the small business sector, income inequality, and the spike and recovery in unemployment through the Great Recession. The study will mine economic sociology and the sociology of finance for hypotheses about how the social structure of finance affects banking practices and local economies, exploiting theory about two key dimensions of finance. It will focus on: 1) the organizational structure of banks, developing the insight that small, locally owned and operated or cooperatively owned banks are less likely to abandon their communities and clients in the pursuit of shareholder value; and 2) the type of the exchange relations between banks and clients, developing the insight that banks that engage in relational lending practices and sustain close, ongoing or embedded ties with borrowers will relate quite differently to clients and local economies than banks that rely mainly on abstract risk rating and arm's length, transactional bank practices. The study will then test these hypotheses using time series analyses of annual, county- and Metropolitan Statistical Areas-level data on the banking, organizational, and economic structure of local economies from 1994 through 2013. The results of these analyses will advance sociological research on finance by going beyond its focus on money-center banks, trading rooms in currency and derivatives markets, and the dyadic relations between banks and clients to document quantitatively and more broadly how relational banking and the organizational structure of banks affect local economies. The results will also deepen links between economic and urban sociology by tracing how social structures of finance and ties between banks and communities shape community resilience in the face of crisis.","crimson_battery","RUI: Community Bank and Credit Union Effects on Communities and Local Economies in the US during the Great Recession",
"1458469","Program for the Advancement of the Discipline","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/15/2015","4/6/2015","John Curtis","DC","American Sociological Assoc","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2018","$184,800.00 ","","jcurtis@asanet.org","1430 K Street, NW","Washington","DC","1430 K Street, NW, Washington, DC","200052529","2023839005","SBE","1331","1331","$0.00 ","SES- 1458469<br/>John W. Curtis<br/>American Sociological Association<br/><br/>Funding through this award provides ongoing support for the joint American Sociological Association/National Science Foundation (ASA/NSF) Fund for the Advancement of the Discipline (FAD). Since its inception in 1987, FAD has provided small grants to encourage innovative research and support conferences that advance the state of knowledge within the discipline. More than 300 scholars have received funding through the program to date, and this award, together with a renewed funding commitment from the ASA, will continue the program for another three years. Proposals submitted to FAD are reviewed by an advisory committee of established scholars; about one quarter of the submitted applications is funded, with a maximum award of $8,000. Funds have been utilized by recipients to train research assistants, and defray the costs of original data collection, data transcription, and travel to archives. Among recent FAD recipients,those receiving awards between 2009 and 2012?more than half published results from their supported project in a scholarly journal or book and 19 percent reported that their work had been cited in popular media. Spread over all recipients during the same period, every dollar spent on FAD awards generated $1.46 in additional funding from other sources; among the approximate one-third of FAD researchers whose awards led directly to additional research support, the average additional return was $4.76.<br/><br/>An important purpose of the FAD program is to encourage successful applications on the part of younger scholars, those employed outside research universities, and researchers who are minorities and women. FAD provides guidance and mentoring to these scholars through a well-developed process, including developmental evaluations by prominent scholars in the discipline and mentoring opportunities. Additional broader impacts of FAD include substantial student training and learning; curriculum modification; building scholarly networks; contributions to sociological infrastructure; and policy impact and media attention. The scholarly, educational, and policy impacts of FAD projects far outweigh the cost of these small awards.","crimson_battery","Program for the Advancement of the Discipline",
"1455499","Creating a Digital Archive for Research on the Production of Scientific Knowledge","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","3/11/2016","Sally Hillsman","DC","American Sociological Assoc","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2018","$285,793.00 ","Roberta Spalter-Roth, James Witte","hillsman@asanet.org","1430 K Street, NW","Washington","DC","1430 K Street, NW, Washington, DC","200052529","2023839005","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","Sociologists generate knowledge through research using the methods of science. That knowledge is communicated and preserved through publication in scientific journals that use peer review to judge the merit of the research conducted. There has been increased interest by scientists and the public to understand how this knowledge production process works in practice. Using the methods of science to explore this important social process can make its workings more transparent without undermining the confidentiality that is necessary to peer review. Yet there are few known repositories of documents needed for such scientific study. Because such repositories of documents are rare and generally not available for study, scholars have been unable to fully study the production of scientific knowledge because they only have the research that was published; yet for premier scientific journals only a subset (often as little as 10 to 15 percent) of the works submitted actually appear in journal pages. Why others were not, and what the reviewers? comments and editorial changes were for those that were published is invisible. <br/><br/>The ASA proposes to undertake a three-year project in collaboration with the Center for Social Science Research at the George Mason University to develop a digital research archive from 20 years of preserved records made available for scholarly research. The archive will contain a database that includes the digitized manuscripts submitted, the reviews, and the decisions made from 1991 to 2009. Since the early 20th century, the American Sociological Association (ASA) has been a major scholarly publisher in the United States, reviewing, disseminating and preserving sociological knowledge through its eight major scholarly journals. Prior to 1991, like most publishers, ASA destroyed all the journal file documents after publication. For the historically significant period 1991 to 2009, however, ASA retained and stored the original paper copies of all manuscripts submitted for review by its eight premier journals as well as the peer reviews and records of editorial decisions made during this period. The creation of this archive involves scanning paper documents, creating a digital architecture and hierarchical data base for researchers to use, securing permission from authors and reviewers to include their documents in the archive, building a hierarchical data set of manuscripts, authors, and reviewers that is searchable, and fully documenting the archived data set so that researchers can use it. The final product will be one of the most comprehensive data products for evaluating the scientific publishing process from initial submission to final publication.","crimson_battery","Creating a Digital Archive for Research on the Production of Scientific Knowledge",
"1636662","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Organizational Control and Worker Experience in Creative Industries","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2016","7/7/2016","Ching Kwan Lee","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","6/30/2017","$10,050.00 ","Michael Siciliano","cklee@soc.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Work in the 21st century is characterized both by insecure employment and increasing numbers of jobs in knowledge and creative industries that require creativity on the part of workers. Many of the workers in these industries work as freelancers in geographically dispersed locations. These characteristics of work in the contemporary economy raise three questions that are the focus of this research: (1) how do workers come to find insecure, uncertain work situations desirable? (2) how do modern organizations control and structure the way people do their work in the absence of requiring workers to be in a single work place. Given the importance of information and communication technologies in the workplace, this study also asks (3) how workplace technologies affect creative workers. To answer these questions, this project compares the working days of two very different types of workers- freelance work performed by YouTube content producers in digital media and audio engineers in popular music compared to data processors in digital media and recording studio office workers in popular music. The first group of workers do more creative work and the second group does more routine work though both work in creative industries. The researcher will conduct ethnographic observations of these workers' everyday experiences to develop a greater understanding of the experiences of workers in these economically important, creative industries. <br/><br/>This project builds upon research within the sociologies of labor, organizations, technology, and art. Addressing the sociology of labor and work's perennial concern regarding organizational control, this research seeks to explain how post-bureaucratic and ""virtual"" organizations in these industries maintain control over work processes in the absence of clear hierarchies and geographically dispersed employees. Addressing recent developments in the sociology of the arts, this project focuses on the role of workers' aesthetic experience vis-�-vis organizational artifacts (e.g. technology and media) in explaining workers' consent to their conditions of employment. Last, this project addresses theoretical concerns related to materiality and technology inside organizations by examining the discursive and socio-material practices associated with ""creativity"" in these industries. Much research on work in creative industries uses only interview data and thus tends to exclude the concrete experiences and everyday meaning making of workers. Empirically, this project extends research on creative work by drawing on ethnographic data gathered through 24 months of participant observation, in-depth, interviews, and audio-visual data collection methods (i.e., audio recordings documenting the sounds of the working day and photographic documentation).","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Organizational Control and Worker Experience in Creative Industries",
"1602882","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining the valuation of non-standard goods in the global economy.","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2016","3/11/2016","Akos Rona-tas","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$12,000.00 ","Emma Greeson","aronatas@ucsd.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining the Valuation of Non-Standard Goods in the Global Economy<br/><br/>Sustainable production and consumption have become a focus of policy-making as growing scientific evidence points to the possibility that current economic practices are depleting valuable resources on a broad scale. Recycling and prevention of waste through reuse are key aspects of these policies, yet little is known about how these waste management measures are practiced, especially as goods for reuse are exported from one country to another. This dissertation focuses on the global value chain for used clothing to understand what happens to discarded items that are transformed from waste and diverted from landfill by being given value. Drawing from economic sociology and waste studies, this project seeks to provide an account of valuation of these waste flows. This dissertation will develop a theory of valuation that can account for cases in which goods are highly unstandardized. Existing sociological explanations of valuation cannot account for how value is created along the global value chain of used clothing, where goods are highly variable and supply is unpredictable. Understanding how waste is transformed into a commodity is important to countries seeking to develop waste management policies that are nationally and globally effective and sustainable. <br/><br/>This study is a multi-sited, mixed-methods study that traces the value chain of used clothing from the United Kingdom to Poland. The central empirical question asks how value is created along the global value chain of used clothing. This dissertation relies on a comparison of how used clothing market actors at different points along the global value chain of used clothing make decisions about value and waste. Data will include in-depth, semi-structured interviews with actors involved in the collection, sorting, processing, exporting, importing, or selling of used clothing in the UK and Poland. Interviews will be informed and supplemented by observation and participant observation in sites at each of six analytically-identified stages along the value chain of used clothing between the UK and Poland. Field notes, interview transcripts, and photographs will be qualitatively coded. Quantitative data regarding amounts and percentages of clothing sold/discarded will come from a structured component of interviews and supplemented by existing industry data. These data, as well as existing business register data, will be analyzed using tabular and multivariate analysis to help explain variations found in the qualitative data and to assess the generalizability of the qualitative findings. This research contributes both to economic sociology and to recycling and waste policy.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining the valuation of non-standard goods in the global economy.",
"1603075","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Homeless service systems and the homeless","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2016","3/9/2016","Loic Wacquant","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$11,925.00 ","Christopher Herring","loic@uclink2.berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Homeless Service Systems and the Homeless<br/>Christopher Herring<br/><br/>Homeless management in the US city relies on the street, shelter, and state supported housing programs. Social scientists do not have a clear understanding of how these institutions relate to one another within an internal economy of homeless management and how these relationships shape the survival of the houseless. Further, every city in the United has an insufficient supply of shelter beds and homeless housing units. There is, then, an important empirical puzzle as to how, why, and when, in this context of housing scarcity, certain individuals and groups end up in one institution rather than another. Rather than just view homelessness as an outcome of poverty, this dissertation seeks to explain the role institutions of homeless management play in sorting and stratifying the poor and possibly deepening the poverty of the precariously housed through policy toward the homeless. This dissertation research will integrate several fields of study in sociology, social welfare and public health and help understand the ways in which policy affects marginalized groups.<br/><br/>To answer the empirical puzzle of who gets what and when within a homeless services system, the dissertation will provide a comparative study of the streets, shelters, and permanent supportive housing programs in the city of San Francisco; a city considered a national model for its multi-service shelters and ""housing first"" approach. The study will adjudicate among three common explanations of institutional entry, restriction, and preference: (a) institutional factors (b) discretionary factors and (c) individual factors that affect their entry, exit, restriction, and circulation between street, shelter, and homeless housing. The dissertation will also assess how residing within one institution or another affects health, work, welfare, criminalization, and social ties. These processes will be studied through a ""multi-sided ethnography,"" working alongside social workers on the streets, shelters, and permanent supportive housing on the one hand, and navigating alongside homeless people through these same spaces. This research contributes to the sociology of the homeless, social welfare, sociology of poverty and has strong broader impacts in its potential contribution to homeless and housing policy.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Homeless service systems and the homeless",
"1519198","Doctoral Dissertation Research: How Oncologists and Patients Understand the Cancer Experience","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/15/2015","3/27/2015","Mary Blair-Loy","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$5,602.00 ","Laura Rogers","blair-loy@ucsd.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","According to the American Cancer Society, nearly half of all U.S. citizens will be diagnosed with some form of cancer in their lifetime. In 2012, approximately 40% of all new diagnoses for women were for breast or gynecological cancers, and 30% of all new diagnoses for men were for prostate or testicular cancer. Those diagnosed often need extensive treatment, which can result in the loss of function or removal entirely of gendered/sexed body parts (for example, impotency or infertility or the surgical removal of breasts or testicles). This disruption of the gendered body that cancer patients face provides a unique space to examine the salience of gender in everyday life. I argue that when people's bodies are altered, they must find new ways to experience and understand them. This dissertation examines how cancer and treatment of the disease can challenge or reinforce cultural scripts that define the gendered body. While cancer and its various forms of treatment can be understood as disruptive, their effects on the gendered body have been neglected in academic study. <br/><br/>In order to access medical discourse surrounding gender and the body, I interview male and female oncologists, knowing that their position gives them the distinctive authority to prescribe solutions to the gendered concerns of their patients. In addition, I interview men and women who have been diagnosed with prostate, testicular, breast and gynecological cancer to find out how they view the changes to their gendered body and subsequent changes to self and identity from undergoing treatment. Policy recommendations are generally made based on studies focused solely on the experiences of women with breast cancer. Knowing this, it is essential to study the experience of male and female patients with various forms of cancer, in order to improve patient care overall. This dissertation also promises to make significant empirical insights to improve cancer care and will provide noteworthy contributions to the sociology of gender, gender studies, sociology of the body, and cultural and medical sociology.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: How Oncologists and Patients Understand the Cancer Experience",
"1340122","EAGER: Field Experiments and Formal Models of Arbitrary Social Inequality","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY","9/15/2013","9/4/2013","Arnout van de Rijt","NY","SUNY at Stony Brook","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$274,769.00 ","","arnout.vanderijt@stonybrook.edu","WEST 5510 FRK MEL LIB","Stony Brook","NY","WEST 5510 FRK MEL LIB, Stony Brook, NY","117940001","6316329949","SBE","1320, 1331","7916, 9251","$0.00 ","SES-1340122<br/>PI: Arnout van de Rijt<br/>SUNY at Stony Brook<br/><br/>Sociologists have long suspected that a great deal of social inequality is inherited from the past, namely through a mechanism of success-breeds-success, or, ""cumulative advantage."" When a select group of individuals accumulates long strings of successes amongst large numbers of repeatedly unsuccessful others, this may well be because these fortunate individuals experienced small, random initial advantages that grew larger and larger through positive feedback, thus increasingly setting them apart from the rest. However, establishing that any given instance of social inequality is arbitrary is difficult, because once clear winners and losers are identified, it is easy to justify that differential success by selectively attributing it to certain hard-to-quantify personal qualities. This research incorporates an experimental strategy for compellingly demonstrating cumulative advantage that can be deployed live in many real-world situations where people seek some form of success. The experimental design is implemented in three specific live domains of success accumulation: financial gain, social status, and social support. In each domain, the experimenter selects individuals at random from a real-world population and bestows upon them money, status, or support through an internet-enabled transfer. Comparison of subsequent success with non-recipients provides a clean test of cumulative advantage. Further, from varying the amount of success bestowed in these experiments we learn how much past success translates into how much future success, which will be used to construct and parameterize formal models of cumulative advantage. These models, in turn, will be used to calculate how much inequality in a system is generated by cumulative advantage. The experimental strategy proposed will reveal whether a large portion of the variation in success across members of various populations is causally attributable to prior differences in success. A key feature of the approach proposed in this project is the application of a consistent experimental framework across different domains to test a common hypothesis and draw general conclusions about the dynamics of social inequality. This approach promises a qualitative shift in our understanding of how societal inequalities emerge and are sustained. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts <br/>The results of this research may suggest novel policy interventions specifically designed to rectify the effects of cumulative advantage by using the very feedback mechanism against itself. For example, the research may suggest that it would be possible to effectively jump-start projects by means of loans that are repayable through the proceeds that cumulative advantage generates. Further, much of the work proposed in the project will build links between the computer science and sociology communities by suggesting a collaborative framework that can be applied to other important sociological questions. Additionally, the project centrally includes the training and mentoring of graduate and undergraduate students.","crimson_battery","EAGER: Field Experiments and Formal Models of Arbitrary Social Inequality",
"1322007","Collaborative Research: Heterogeneity and Adaptation in American Wealth","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/15/2013","9/14/2013","Jody Vallejo","CA","University of Southern California","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$120,000.00 ","","vallejoj@usc.edu","University Park","Los Angeles","CA","University Park, Los Angeles, CA","900890001","2137407762","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1322738<br/>Lisa Keister<br/>Duke University<br/><br/>SES-1322007<br/>Jody Vallejo<br/>University of Southern California<br/><br/>Chinese immigrants to the United States and their descendants are a large, growing, and diverse group whose members are following a variety of paths of adaptation. This research asks: what factors account for wealth accumulation patterns for Chinese immigrants, and how can these patterns inform understanding of immigrant adaptation? Chinese immigrants and their descendants are often discussed in terms of their high median levels of achievement, but Chinese Americans vary considerably on education, income, occupation, and labor market mobility. For example, although their median income is high, Chinese Americans are more likely than white natives to live in poverty. Given their size and within-group heterogeneity, this case provides an occasion to study the factors that enhance or impede immigrant adaptation in general. This study will contribute to the immigration literature by providing a detailed within-group study of this important group and by focusing on their wealth (or net worth) accumulation, an important but understudied measure of adaptation. The project has three specific objectives. First, it will provide a detailed portrait of wealth for Chinese immigrants and their children. It will describe wealth ownership for households at all points in the wealth distribution, comparing Chinese Americans with other Americans, other recent immigrants and descendants of immigrants, and other Asians. Second, it will identify unique wealth accumulation trajectories for Chinese immigrants and their American-born children to distinguish patterns of immigrant adaptation. Third, it will assess the degree to which entrepreneurship contributes to wealth accumulation for Chinese immigrants and their children by using respondent-driven sampling (RDS) to construct a portrait of Chinese business networks in Southern California.<br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/>This research will contribute to research in many academic disciplines including immigration studies, the sociology of race/ethnicity, Chinese American studies, entrepreneurship, stratification and inequality, and economic sociology. This research has the potential to shed new light on an important and growing segment of U.S. society and to broaden understanding of immigration and adaptation processes and pathways more generally. The research is also likely to have important broader social impacts. This proposed research has the potential to inform discussions on immigration, wealth ownership, and inequality. The investigators anticipate disseminating the findings widely, including to non-academics, through publications in non-academic journals, op-ed pieces, and press releases. In addition, the investigators will involve graduate students in all aspects of the research and will draw on the work in their graduate and undergraduate courses on social stratification, immigration, and economic sociology.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Heterogeneity and Adaptation in American Wealth",
"1322738","Collaborative Research: Heterogeneity and Adaptation in American Wealth","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/15/2013","9/14/2013","Lisa Keister","NC","Duke University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$184,398.00 ","","lkeister@soc.duke.edu","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710","Durham","NC","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710, Durham, NC","277054010","9196843030","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1322738 <br/>Lisa Keister <br/>Duke University <br/><br/>SES-1322007 <br/>Jody Vallejo <br/>University of Southern California <br/><br/>Chinese immigrants to the United States and their descendants are a large, growing, and diverse group whose members are following a variety of paths of adaptation. This research asks: what factors account for wealth accumulation patterns for Chinese immigrants, and how can these patterns inform understanding of immigrant adaptation? Chinese immigrants and their descendants are often discussed in terms of their high median levels of achievement, but Chinese Americans vary considerably on education, income, occupation, and labor market mobility. For example, although their median income is high, Chinese Americans are more likely than white natives to live in poverty. Given their size and within-group heterogeneity, this case provides an occasion to study the factors that enhance or impede immigrant adaptation in general. This study will contribute to the immigration literature by providing a detailed within-group study of this important group and by focusing on their wealth (or net worth) accumulation, an important but understudied measure of adaptation. The project has three specific objectives. First, it will provide a detailed portrait of wealth for Chinese immigrants and their children. It will describe wealth ownership for households at all points in the wealth distribution, comparing Chinese Americans with other Americans, other recent immigrants and descendants of immigrants, and other Asians. Second, it will identify unique wealth accumulation trajectories for Chinese immigrants and their American-born children to distinguish patterns of immigrant adaptation. Third, it will assess the degree to which entrepreneurship contributes to wealth accumulation for Chinese immigrants and their children by using respondent-driven sampling (RDS) to construct a portrait of Chinese business networks in Southern California. <br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/>This research will contribute to research in many academic disciplines including immigration studies, the sociology of race/ethnicity, Chinese American studies, entrepreneurship, stratification and inequality, and economic sociology. This research has the potential to shed new light on an important and growing segment of U.S. society and to broaden understanding of immigration and adaptation processes and pathways more generally. The research is also likely to have important broader social impacts. This proposed research has the potential to inform discussions on immigration, wealth ownership, and inequality. The investigators anticipate disseminating the findings widely, including to non-academics, through publications in non-academic journals, op-ed pieces, and press releases. In addition, the investigators will involve graduate students in all aspects of the research and will draw on the work in their graduate and undergraduate courses on social stratification, immigration, and economic sociology.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Heterogeneity and Adaptation in American Wealth",
"1558187","Status, Faction Sizes and Social Influence","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","2/24/2016","David Melamed","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$95,707.00 ","","melamed.9@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331","9150","$0.00 ","This project integrates psychological and sociological theories of social influence into a single framework. Within psychology, the distribution of opinions in task groups is one of the dominant factors explaining social influence, with people being influenced by the majority in a group. Within sociology, status characteristics, such as educational attainment, general intelligence, and even gender, have been shown to be related to social influence, with higher status people being more influential over group decision making. This project examines how the distribution of opinions and relative status combine to affect social influence. As such, it contributes to research and theory in sociology and psychology, and also contributes to generalizable knowledge regarding how the structure of task groups may shape their outcomes. <br/><br/>Two laboratory studies constitute the empirical component of this project. The first uses highly controlled protocols to isolate the joint effects of status and the distribution of opinions on social influence. The experimental procedures ensure other factors are not explaining variations in social influence. The second study applies the theory to groups of individuals that will be recruited from the broader community. Specifically, groups of three or six people will be invited to the laboratory to participate in an open interaction session. They will be asked to form an opinion about a task, to share that opinion with the group, and then asked for their final opinions. Changes in initial opinions constitutes social influence, and is expected to follow from status processes and the distribution of opinions in predictable ways. These groups will systematically vary in their composition by gender, age, occupation, and race. Statistical modeling will be employed to discern the effects of status and the distribution of opinions on social influence.","crimson_battery","Status, Faction Sizes and Social Influence",
"1606959","An Interdisciplinary Approach to Reducing Disparities in Social Captial","SMA","SPRF-IBSS","8/1/2016","8/25/2016","Leor Hackel","CA","Stanford University","Continuing grant","Josie S. Welkom","7/31/2018","$227,520.00 ","","leorhackel@gmail.com","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","8209","","$0.00 ","The Directorate of Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences offers postdoctoral research fellowships to provide opportunities for recent doctoral graduates to obtain additional training, to gain research experience under the sponsorship of established scientists, and to broaden their scientific horizons beyond their undergraduate and graduate training. Postdoctoral fellowships are further designed to assist new scientists to direct their research efforts across traditional disciplinary lines and to avail themselves of unique research resources, sites, and facilities, including at foreign locations. This postdoctoral fellowship award supports a rising interdisciplinary scholar in order to expand the Fellow's experience beyond traditional disciplinary boundaries and focus on a key psychological problem of broad interest and importance. The Fellow will study how people develop social capital-the collected resources available through relationships with other people. Examples of social capital include loans, jobs, time, and advice. Social capital proffers crucial advantages to individuals, but economically disadvantaged people often also suffer from poor access to social capital, limiting their social mobility. Little is known about psychological processes that lead to these disparities. In this work, the fellow will generate a laboratory model of social capital inequality, and test an intervention to increase equitable social capital. In doing so, this research will draw from social psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and sociology, crossing traditional disciplinary lines to characterize how people learn about one another and develop social capital. By characterizing and ameliorating disparities in social capital, the proposal may offer benefits to individuals and society as a whole. By developing an interdisciplinary approach, this project offers new insights to several fields, promoting scientific progress. <br/><br/>This project develops a subfield at the intersection of several disciplines: instrumental social learning, or the study of how people learn about others through interaction. This subfield can offer new insights to its parent fields of cognitive neuroscience and social psychology, and can link individual psychology to sociological patterns. First, the proposed work will test how people form impressions of one another during interaction and how interactions influence later decisions to help others. By examining how people learn about others through active experience, this project links impression formation to decision-making and to neural models of reward-based learning. Second, the proposed work highlights the fact that people learn by experiencing the valuable social qualities of other people, such as generosity, in addition to learning about material benefits others bring to the self. Third, the present proposal will test whether social psychological interventions shape reward-based learning, which has most often been studied in isolation of social context. Finally, these findings would tie psychological processes of learning and decision-making within individuals to broad sociological patterns of social capital, linking social cognition ""down"" to neural models of learning and ""up"" to societal-level outcomes. The proposed research links disparities in social capital to the way in which individuals learn about one another through interaction, examining how people build social ties that can promote reciprocity. Specifically, the current research tests whether people reciprocate more with others who bring them material rewards through interaction, above and beyond those who display positive character traits and intentions (Experiments 1 and 2). In addition, the present proposal tests a social psychological intervention (empathic mindsets) to shape patterns of reward-based learning (Experiment 3). To propagate the impact of this research, the Fellow will disseminate findings to the scientific community through journals and conferences, and to the public through science communication outlets. To facilitate the development of interdisciplinary science, the Fellow will create quantitative tools for researchers in social psychology to use computational models of social learning and decision-making.","crimson_atom","An Interdisciplinary Approach to Reducing Disparities in Social Captial",
"1623201","Targeted Infusion Project: Security Pedagogy Across the Curriculum: A Model to Integrate Cybersecurity into the Social Sciences","HRD","HIST BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIV","9/1/2016","8/20/2016","Carlene Turner","VA","Norfolk State University","Standard Grant","Claudia M. Rankins","8/31/2019","$399,974.00 ","Cheryl Hinds, Claude Turner, Yuying Shen, Robert Perkins","cmturner@nsu.edu","700 Park Avenue","Norfolk","VA","700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, VA","235048060","7578239053","EHR","1594","9178","$0.00 ","The Historically Black Colleges and Universities Undergraduate Program (HBCU-UP) through Targeted Infusion Projects supports the development, implementation, and study of evidence-based innovative models and approaches for improving the preparation and success of HBCU undergraduate students so that they may pursue science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) graduate programs and/or careers. The project at Norfolk State University seeks to infuse cybersecurity within the social science undergraduate curriculum through experiential learning. The activities and strategies are evidence-based and grounded in a theoretical framework, and a strong plan for formative and summative evaluation is part of the project.<br/><br/>The overarching goal of the project will be developing, implementing and assessing a set of laboratory and lecture modules which will integrate cybersecurity into sociology and criminal justice courses. The project has the specific objectives to: integrate cybersecurity into existing undergraduate sociology and criminal justice courses; host workshops to train social science faculty to teach cybersecurity content; replicate the modules beyond sociology and criminal justice programs; and create a new socio-cybersecurity course. The project will provide increased learning opportunities for an academically diverse population of undergraduate students in cybersecurity as these student do not usually pursue cybersecurity courses. The project has a strong collaboration with the Department of Computer Science.","mauve_battery","Targeted Infusion Project: Security Pedagogy Across the Curriculum: A Model to Integrate Cybersecurity into the Social Sciences",
"1259364","Collaborative Research: Places, Poverty and State Capacity: Local State Responses to Recession and Socioeconomic Well-Being, 2001-2012","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","4/15/2013","4/11/2013","Gregory Hooks","WA","Washington State University","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","9/30/2016","$41,484.00 ","","ghooks@wsu.edu","280 Lighty","PULLMAN","WA","280 Lighty, PULLMAN, WA","991641060","5093359661","SBE","1331, 1352","1331, 1352","$0.00 ","This collaborative research project will examine the degree to which local governments improve socioeconomic well-being across the nation and whether they contribute to recovery following the recession of 2008 to 2011. The impacts of local governments on employment growth, income growth, poverty alleviation, and other socioeconomic indicators will be investigated. The researchers will focus their efforts on tests of three broad-ranging hypotheses: (1) Capacity (size, administrative/fiscal resources, and policy interventions) of local governments is positively related to the well-being of the populations they serve. (2) Capacity is related to countercyclical (proactive) local government responses to the Great Recession. (3) Where local governments took countercyclical responses, future socioeconomic well-being improved. Each of these hypotheses will be addressed for all local governments within county-area units across 50 states and for the county governments. Although county governments exceed federal civilian government in employment size, social scientists have all but ignored them. A local government database constructed by the investigators will be extended for the post-recession period through the use of the Census of Governments and other secondary data. For county governments, unique primary longitudinal data spanning 2001-2008 will be used.<br/><br/>The project will have theoretical significance across the social sciences and broad utility for communities and families across the U.S. as they face potential cuts to their local governments in the aftermath of the Great Recession. The project will create a new bridge between political sociology and the longstanding poverty-and-place literature, a tradition addressing subnational disparities that spans sociology, geography, economics, and regional science. The project will address fundamental social science questions about the role of government in promoting public well-being across the nation. It will inform policies aimed at post-recession recovery. Captured in the data are local public employment changes during the Obama stimulus-package period that will enable the researchers to measure their impact on poverty and to also assess whether place-based (locally centered) policies helped in poverty alleviation. The project will provide education and training opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students, and it will enhance the data infrastructure for detailed studies of local governments and well-being for future research.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Places, Poverty and State Capacity: Local State Responses to Recession and Socioeconomic Well-Being, 2001-2012",
"1516778","Models for Social, Ecological, and Biological Systems: Narrowing the Gap Between Theory and Applications","DMS","APPLIED MATHEMATICS","8/15/2015","8/13/2015","Nancy Rodriguez","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Continuing grant","Victor Roytburd","7/31/2018","$112,231.00 ","","nrod@unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","MPS","1266","9251","$0.00 ","This research is aimed at development of mathematical tools for understanding and predicting behavior of a variety of important and apparently dissimilar biological phenomena and sociological processes, such as the spread of diseases, ecological changes, or the distribution and prevention of crime. Some salient features of these diverse phenomena can be described by mathematical models based on reaction-advection-diffusion equations that have been used extensively to investigate fundamental and ubiquitous phenomena in several areas of biology, and more recently in the social sciences. While these models are simplified versions of reality, their mathematical analysis has contributed to the understanding of many important phenomena. At the same time, the underlying equations can be extremely interesting and challenging from the mathematical point of view as their solutions can exhibit rich behaviors, e.g., pattern formation and traveling wave structures. The behavior of solutions reflects critical features of the system that mathematics models and have clear and convincing parallels with the evolution of real-world systems. However, there is still a large gap between real world systems and their more tractable mathematical models. One of the goals of this project is bridging this gap through the use of accumulated concrete data and the corresponding calibration and modification of mathematical models. Of particular importance is the analysis of systems which include heterogeneous environments, the understanding of the effects that non-local dispersal has on the behavior of the solutions, and the validation of these models with real-world data. Efforts will be focused on four reaction-advection-diffusion systems where the heterogeneities are due to: climate change in an ecological context, non-local and asymmetrical spread of information in the context of riots, income heterogeneities in the context of social segregation, and environment heterogeneities due to specific concentrated inputs. The primary goal of the project is to understand how heterogeneous environments and non-local dispersal impact solution patterns in both a general class of nonlinear reaction-diffusion equations as well in specific ecological and social contexts. Throughout this project the investigators will maintain and foster contacts with social scientists in order to conduct the much needed discourse between the mathematical theory and the applications. <br/><br/>This project will focus on the development of an extensive theory for reaction-advection-diffusion systems in heterogeneous environments with applications in ecology and sociology. In particular, the objective of this research is three-fold: to expand the current mathematical theory for local and non-local reaction-advection-diffusion systems in heterogeneous environments, to gain insight into various (ecological, sociological, and biological) complex systems by modeling them using these types of systems, and to take an initial step toward bridging the gap between basic mathematical models and the complex real-world systems they aim to describe by incorporating the use of data. From the qualitative perspective, this work will be mainly concerned with exploring the effects that various dispersal mechanism have on the propagation (and lack thereof) of a solution in a heterogeneous environment: for example, determining the spreading speed, the existence of traveling wave solutions, pulsating fronts, traveling pulses, or generalized fronts in heterogeneous systems. Additionally, the fundamental issues of the global well-posedness of solutions to these systems, intermediate and long-term asymptotics, and existence and uniqueness of non-trivial steady-state solutions will be rigorously analyzed.","salmon_atom","Models for Social, Ecological, and Biological Systems: Narrowing the Gap Between Theory and Applications",
"1519044","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Political Stability in the Era of Global Capitalism","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2015","5/15/2015","Vivek Chibber","NY","New York University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$11,960.00 ","Ihsan Ercan Sadi","vivek.chibber@nyu.edu","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S","NEW YORK","NY","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S, NEW YORK, NY","100121019","2129982121","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","This project seeks to explain how political stability in the developing world in the age of global capitalism is achieved. Recent Turkish political history provides a unique case to test and extend theories on this issue. Between 1989 and 2002, Turkey witnessed 11 consecutive governments. This tumultuous period ended only when the economic crises of 2000/2001 altered power relations, resulting in unpopular reforms that led to the election of the Justice and Development Party. The JDP has maintained its political hegemony since then, winning consecutive landslide victories over the last 13 years. Why were the short-lived governments of Turkey's lost decade of the 1990s unable to prevent the breakup of their respective regimes? How was it possible for the current JDP to maintain its rule since 2002? This research hypothesizes that: (1) The dynamics between the banking sector and the public debt regime systematically generated conflicts among the ruling elite, inhibiting political parties from forming viable coalitions during the 1990s, and that (2) the successful resolutions of these conflicts after the 2001 economic crisis account for the JDP's ability to bring about stability. With a focus on finance and state-capital relations, I seek to explore an overlooked, but potentially significant, factor shaping political arrangements.<br/><br/>This project employs a qualitative research methodology, based on a detailed within-case comparative historical-sociological analysis. The project uses two research strategies that are widely used by sociologists: an extensive historical investigation of archived materials produced by selected state institutions and private organizations, and semi-structured in-depth interviews with political and economic elites in Turkey. Combining these two primary sources, I aim not only to understand micro-level dynamics of political stability by scrutinizing incentives behind how elites reach (or fail to reach) consensus under given economic constraints and political pressures, but also to discover larger structural and institutional forces underlying political decision-making processes at the state level. Therefore, this research will produce reproducible, generalizable and falsifiable results since the findings and claims can be tested against ?matching? (positive or negative) historically situated and/or counter-factual cases. The project's analysis of how finance shapes electoral politics and governing institutions can potentially offer generalizable policy suggestions concerning developmental issues and democratic governance practices.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Political Stability in the Era of Global Capitalism",
"1633314","Pricing the Priceless Spacecraft: The Social Life of Money in Robotic Planetary Exploration","SMA","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY, SCIENCE OF SCIENCE POLICY","7/1/2016","7/7/2016","Janet Vertesi","NJ","Princeton University","Standard Grant","Maryann Feldman","6/30/2018","$289,995.00 ","","jvertesi@princeton.edu","Off. of Research & Proj. Admin.","Princeton","NJ","Off. of Research & Proj. Admin., Princeton, NJ","85442020","6092583090","SBE","7603, 7626","1353, 7567, 7626","$0.00 ","The recent economic crisis has created havoc for public funding of big science projects, especially those that rely on long term support. Yet it is often difficult to determine the effects of this fiscal uncertainty on the technologies, communities, and scientific findings that such funding is meant to support. This project uses the case study of NASA spacecraft mission teams to examine how scientists secure, maintain, and compete for funding during moments of financial crisis, with an eye to how these activities affect scientific and technical results. The research offers policy implications for public funding. During times of greater fiscal scrutiny and austerity, federal agencies and policy-makers require data-driven understanding of the consequences for long-term scientific and technical innovation that are associated with trade-offs in funding levels and priority-setting. <br/><br/>This project accumulates archival, interview, and budgetary data across three periods of fiscal uncertainty endured by six spacecraft missions: the late 1960s and early 70s (Mariner 10 and Viking), the ""lost"" 1980s (Galileo and Mars Observer), and the ""faster, better, cheaper"" era of the 1990s (Cassini and Pathfinder). The research assembles as comprehensive a dataset as possible on the specific technical and scientific changes on the ground due to budgetary crises, combining oral history interviews with project managers and cost estimators with hard numbers accumulated in reports. Planetary science is accustomed to budgetary upheavals and has developed many strategies to mitigate the impact of fiscal uncertainty. The fiscal backdrop for each of these missions illuminates the social and interactional mechanisms for securing funding as well as the ultimate effects of financial decision-making upon scientific work. Thus unlike studies of technology or science that frame funding as an external affair, or that examine science and politics as separate fields, this case demonstrates how science funding is a continual process woven through scientific work, requiring many layered relationships between individuals and institutions. The project therefore unites many social science fields including history and sociology of science, economic sociology, historical sociology and the science of team science, to investigate the impact of fiscal challenges on scientific collaboration, integration and dissemination.","crimson_battery","Pricing the Priceless Spacecraft: The Social Life of Money in Robotic Planetary Exploration",
"1519280","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding Organizational Anticipation and Response to Disaster Risks","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","5/12/2015","Peter Bearman","NY","Columbia University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,472.00 ","Ryan Hagen","psb17@columbia.edu","2960 Broadway","NEW YORK","NY","2960 Broadway, NEW YORK, NY","100276902","2128546851","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","The purpose of this research is to improve our understanding of how organizations in metropolitan areas work together to identify, plan for, and respond to disaster risks. Previous research has focused on reactions to specific disaster events. This research shifts attention to an under-studied area, the everyday practice of professionals working in government to proactively anticipate disaster in a way that reduces the frequency and impact of these disruptive events. The research will focus on how disaster risk management expertise is developed, and how that expertise is deployed in times of stability and crisis within and across organizational boundaries. In sociology this project represents the first systematic empirical study of the daily work of disaster managers in a major metropolitan area. The analysis of interview and participant-observation data will provide critical links between the sociology of disaster and more general research on risk and expertise. <br/><br/>This project collects and analyzes data from participant observation in a municipal emergency management agency in New York City as well as in-depth interviews with disaster risk management professionals in public service and the private sector. The participant observation phase of the data collection will involve shadowing Office of Emergency Management staff while they perform seven different tasks; network administration to maintain ties with other government organizations to coordinate disaster response; planning, which includes the writing of disaster preparedness plans and playbooks; the development and execution of tabletop exercises for disaster simulations; monitoring conditions during times of stability; public communication; training and education; and actual operations activity. These observations will be complemented by 75 in-depth interviews with disaster management practitioners, 60 from the New York City OEM network and 15 from outside of it. The purpose of these observations and interviews is to understand how risk management practitioners define risk, how expertise is defined in an area where knowledge changes rapidly and how multiple organizations interact (or not) to protect the citizenry from disasters of multiple kinds. In a period where disasters are becoming more frequent and their effects more severe, this project will contribute to our understanding of how disaster risk can be reduced. It also will be helpful as a source of best practices for emergency management practitioners currently working in government and private industry.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding Organizational Anticipation and Response to Disaster Risks",
"1637182","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Social Evaluations in Organizational Philanthropy","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2016","7/14/2016","Brayden King","IL","Northwestern University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,592.00 ","Vontrese Pamphile","b-king@kellogg.northwestern.edu","1801 Maple Ave.","Evanston","IL","1801 Maple Ave., Evanston, IL","602013149","8474913003","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1637182<br/>Brayden King<br/>Vontrese Pamphile<br/>Northwestern University<br/><br/>How do philanthropic foundations determine which nonprofits should receive their funds? The value of a nonprofit is multifaceted and difficult to assess, yet foundations have limited resources and must decide how to allocate funds. This study examines how grantmakers (i.e., those responsible for donations) assess the merit of nonprofits at two very different kinds of private foundations: corporate and independent. Understanding how grantmakers come to see nonprofits as worthy of funds is important, as foundations are vehicles through which the most affluent Americans influence how society approaches social problems. This project will yield information about how private foundations in the United States approach a broad swath of societally relevant outcomes. The results will have practical implications for understanding patterns of resource allocation within the nonprofit sector, as the project will reveal how different types of foundations conceptualize social problems, and specific nonprofits tackling those problems, as worth funding. Moreover, results will be relevant to ongoing policy debates about the role of private philanthropy generally and corporate philanthropy in particular. Findings from this research will be translated into publically assessable outlets including policy briefs, op-ed columns, the popular press, and practitioner conferences.<br/><br/>Empirically, a total of 80 interviews will be conducted with grantmakers employed by 40 different corporate foundations and 40 different independent foundations. Ethnographic observations of one corporate foundation and one independent foundation are used to provide a greater understanding of the context and for triangulation purposes. Theoretically, the project bridges insights from organizational theory and the sociology of evaluation. Specifically, the project examines the nature of competing organizational goals in shaping the evaluation process. The project explores whether and why uncertainty associated with competing goals leads evaluators to rely on cues outside their organization, such as the behavior of high-status peers. Additionally, the project explores whether and why unified goals orient evaluators toward reliance on internal cues such as fit with foundation mission and history. The project further develops the sociology of evaluation by detailing the mechanisms by which organizational context and structure influence how evaluators assess the merit of different entities. This approach recognizes that evaluative practices, like other organizational practices, are shaped by the fields in which they are embedded. The findings also have implications for organizational studies and for nonprofit scholarship more generally.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Social Evaluations in Organizational Philanthropy",
"1602743","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Cultural Capital and Students' Experiences in College: The Role of Parents in Facilitating Student Success","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/15/2016","6/15/2016","Josipa Roksa","VA","University of Virginia Main Campus","Standard Grant","Patricia White","11/30/2017","$11,970.00 ","Denise Deutschlander","jroksa@virginia.edu","P.O. BOX 400195","CHARLOTTESVILLE","VA","P.O. BOX 400195, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA","229044195","4349244270","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602743<br/>Josipa Roksa<br/>Denise T Deutschlander<br/>University of Virginia<br/><br/>College is popularly considered a path to upward mobility. Often missing from this discourse is the recognition that even when students from socioeconomically disadvantaged families gain access to higher education they do not always graduate, and they are much less likely to graduate than their more advantaged peers. Prior research indicates that academic preparation and financial supports, while important, do not fully explain the social class gap in college completion. To understand social class inequality, sociologists have increasingly turned attention to the knowledge and practices that facilitate successful interaction with social institutions, such as schools. To date, most of this research has focused on K-12 education or the transition into college. Few studies examine students' experiences in college. Moreover, while parents are central to research on social class inequality in K-12 education and college entry, they are rarely considered after students enter college. The image of the helicopter parent, common in the popular discourse, does not depict the experience of less advantaged parents, who may struggle to support their children during college. This project investigates how parents from disadvantaged backgrounds can support their children on the path to college success. <br/><br/>Through longitudinal, qualitative interviews, part one of this project explores how students and parents develop expectations about college experiences and how those change between high school and college. A goal of this portion of the project is to understand how parents support their children through college and whether and how their behaviors change over time. Part two implements and evaluates (through a randomized controlled trial) an intervention to help parents encourage their children to engage with faculty and other institutional resources. Surveys administered to students in both treatment and control conditions will illuminate the extent to which a lack of information and a lack of entitlement in seeking support and resources contribute to the challenges encountered by less advantaged students. The longitudinal interviews included in part one will also help explore whether parents change their behavior in response to the educational intervention. This research aims to illuminate specific practices of low-income families and student experiences during college that facilitate student success. Therefore, it may spur higher education practitioners to change the methods they use to engage parents and develop infrastructure that will more effectively support student success. Finally, the theoretical insights gained through this project will contribute to broader sociological understanding of how educational institutions may contribute to inequality through implicit barriers. By drawing attention to these barriers, this research can contribute to the broader societal goal, and expectation, that education provides equal opportunities as well as serves as a mechanism for upward mobility.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Cultural Capital and Students' Experiences in College: The Role of Parents in Facilitating Student Success",
"1602839","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Weight-based Discrimination and Group Interactions: An Expansion of Status Characteristics Theory","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2016","4/25/2016","Carla Goar","OH","Kent State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$12,000.00 ","Bobbi Reidinger","cgoar@kent.edu","OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER","KENT","OH","OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER, KENT, OH","442420001","3306722070","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602839<br/>Carla Goar<br/>Bobbie Reidinger<br/>Kent State University<br/><br/>This research examines the impact of body weight in task-oriented groups by testing whether weight behaves as a status characteristic; specifically, whether it serves as a differentiating characteristic that becomes activated, organizes performance expectations, and impacts task behaviors. Using a standard experimental setting, the impact of weight on social processes is measured through an examination of influence. In these experiments, differently weighted participants will work with their partner, dependent on the experimental condition, to complete two tasks. After considering their partner?s responses, each participant will submit a final group report in addition to their individual answers. How often a participant accepts or rejects their partner?s answers allows for a measure of influence. It is hypothesized that the weight of the partner will directly impact measures of influence regardless of the weight of the participant. <br/><br/>The emerging field of fat studies suggests that fatness has negative social implications within American society which transcend racial, gender, and class categories; however, weight has not been explored as a status characteristic in the sociological social psychological literature. An examination of weight as a diffuse status characteristic will expand the sociological social psychological literature, specifically expectation states and status characteristic theories, as well as the emerging field of fat studies. Greater theoretical understanding will enhance research on weight-based discrimination and group interactions. As reliance on groups grows, increased understanding of characteristics which influence group interactions is necessary. Results from the proposed study may lead to the creation and implementation of social interventions to reduce weight-based discrimination within diverse groups.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Weight-based Discrimination and Group Interactions: An Expansion of Status Characteristics Theory",
"1603076","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Social ties, relational obligations and socio-economic outcomes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/1/2016","3/2/2016","Ann Swidler","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$11,340.00 ","Lindsay Bayham","swidler@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","This dissertation examines the relationship between personal relationships, financial obligations, and socio-economic outcomes in sub-Saharan Africa. Although many have written about Africa's rising middle class in recent years, they ignore the continued importance of Africans' obligations to financially support family members and friends in the absence of strong government welfare systems. These financial obligations create a paradox: as individuals rise economically, they must spend more money supporting dependent family and friends. Focusing on Ghana, a country with both a growing middle class and a growing commercial finance sector, this research seeks to answer two questions: how do individuals from different socio-economic backgrounds interpret and fulfill their obligations differently? Second, how do Ghanaians' obligation management strategies affect their socio-economic outcomes? The research draws together insights from history, anthropology, and sociology to contribute to scholars' understanding of the economic dimensions of personal relationships in different cultures, as well as social stratification in contemporary sub-Saharan Africa, an area of the world often overlooked by sociologists. This research has implications for development policy and planning in other developing countries, where efforts to provide formal financial services for ""unbanked"" residents are growing, and where economic opportunities are multiplying but unevenly distributed. <br/><br/>This dissertation examines the relationship between personal relationships, financial obligations, and socio-economic outcomes in countries where the government welfare system is limited and patronage relationships still serve as a primary means of resource distribution. Focusing on Ghana, an African country with both a growing middle class and a growing commercial finance sector, the study asks two questions: how do individuals from different socio-economic backgrounds interpret and fulfill their obligations differently?that is, how do Ghanaians of various economic means practice different obligation management strategies? Second, how might different obligation management strategies affect Ghanaians' socio-economic outcomes? The research employs two primary methods. First, a 300-person vignette survey of urban Ghanaians will examine the diversity of norms surrounding financial obligations and obligation management strategies among Ghanaians from different socio-economic backgrounds. Second, 60 in-depth follow-up interviews with low-, middle-, and high-income respondents will provide more detailed data on respondents' social networks and economic strategies. The research extends knowledge of how contemporary Africans both exploit and/or resist the demands of patrons and clients in a patronage-based society. Additionally, it highlights the role of institutional context in mediating the connection between personal relations and economic outcomes. Understanding how relational obligations affect individuals' and families' own economic advancement will illustrate the difficulties of managing relations and resources in a developing society where economic opportunities are multiplying but unevenly distributed.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Social ties, relational obligations and socio-economic outcomes",
"1602606","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining the Mechanisms of Collective Bargaining Legislative Outcomes at the State-Level","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/29/2016","Larry Isaac","TN","Vanderbilt University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$11,995.00 ","Anna Jacobs","larry.isaac@vanderbilt.edu","Sponsored Programs Administratio","Nashville","TN","Sponsored Programs Administratio, Nashville, TN","372350002","6153222631","SBE","1331","1331, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602606<br/>Larry Isaac<br/>Anna Jacobs<br/>Vanderbilt University<br/><br/>One manifestation of class contention today is the revival in advocacy for Right-to-Work (RTW) legislation in the last decade. In 2014 alone, there were 60 proposed RTW bills in 27 states, and the passage of RTW laws in Michigan (2012) and Wisconsin (2014) has led many to question how regressive labor laws could be passed in heavily unionized states. Ultimately the question being asked is embedded in the larger question of who or what influences the policies enacted by the state? Within the field of sociology, there are four distinct theories that attempt to answer this general question: (1) pluralism, (2) elite theory, (3) instrumentalist-Marxism, and (4) state-centered institutionalism. The increasingly heated battle between labor and business interests in state legislatures provides a perfect case for testing the relative merit of four dominant sociological theories of power. The purpose of this dissertation is to answer the following questions: (1) What factors account for the variation in state legislators? actions? (2) What factors account for the fate of proposed collective bargaining bills in state legislatures? <br/><br/>This study examines the proposal and passage of all state-level collective bargaining bills during the 2011-2012 legislative session. The analysis combines five unique datasets. The first dataset consists of data on every bill related to collective bargaining proposed among all state legislatures in the 2011-2012 legislative session (N=2,068). The second has data on the financial contributions to state-level elections in 2008 and 2010. The third has information on state and constituent characteristics from the 2010 census. The fourth contains data on state level institutional differences, such as differences in rules about vetoing, majority rule, and committee appointment procedures. The fifth dataset will collect publicly available data on the corporate business ties of all state legislators in 2012. These data will be used to study two outcomes: First, by using each legislator as a unit of analysis, the investigator plans to explain variation in legislators? bill proposals. Second, by using each proposed bill as the unit of analysis, generalized ordered logistic regression models will predict the outcome of each bill: (1) proposed, (2) failed in first chamber, (2) failed in second chamber, (3) vetoed, or (4) passed into legislation. Both analyses will analyze all four theoretical models.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining the Mechanisms of Collective Bargaining Legislative Outcomes at the State-Level",
"1259424","Collaborative Research: Places, Poverty and State Capacity: Local State Responses to Recession and Socioeconomic Well-Being, 2001-2012","BCS","GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, SOCIOLOGY","4/15/2013","4/11/2013","Linda Lobao","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","9/30/2017","$129,009.00 ","Mark Partridge","lobao.1@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1352, 1331","1331, 1352","$0.00 ","This collaborative research project will examine the degree to which local governments improve socioeconomic well-being across the nation and whether they contribute to recovery following the recession of 2008 to 2011. The impacts of local governments on employment growth, income growth, poverty alleviation, and other socioeconomic indicators will be investigated. The researchers will focus their efforts on tests of three broad-ranging hypotheses: (1) Capacity (size, administrative/fiscal resources, and policy interventions) of local governments is positively related to the well-being of the populations they serve. (2) Capacity is related to countercyclical (proactive) local government responses to the Great Recession. (3) Where local governments took countercyclical responses, future socioeconomic well-being improved. Each of these hypotheses will be addressed for all local governments within county-area units across 50 states and for the county governments. Although county governments exceed federal civilian government in employment size, social scientists have all but ignored them. A local government database constructed by the investigators will be extended for the post-recession period through the use of the Census of Governments and other secondary data. For county governments, unique primary longitudinal data spanning 2001-2008 will be used.<br/><br/>The project will have theoretical significance across the social sciences and broad utility for communities and families across the U.S. as they face potential cuts to their local governments in the aftermath of the Great Recession. The project will create a new bridge between political sociology and the longstanding poverty-and-place literature, a tradition addressing subnational disparities that spans sociology, geography, economics, and regional science. The project will address fundamental social science questions about the role of government in promoting public well-being across the nation. It will inform policies aimed at post-recession recovery. Captured in the data are local public employment changes during the Obama stimulus-package period that will enable the researchers to measure their impact on poverty and to also assess whether place-based (locally centered) policies helped in poverty alleviation. The project will provide education and training opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students, and it will enhance the data infrastructure for detailed studies of local governments and well-being for future research.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Places, Poverty and State Capacity: Local State Responses to Recession and Socioeconomic Well-Being, 2001-2012",
"1421442","Media and Legal Influences on Decision-Making","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2014","6/4/2015","Mary Nell Trautner","NY","SUNY at Buffalo","Continuing grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$163,640.00 ","","trautner@buffalo.edu","520 Lee Entrance","Amherst","NY","520 Lee Entrance, Amherst, NY","142282567","7166452634","SBE","1331","9179, 9251","$0.00 ","How does culture influence decision making? Specifically, this research examines the role that culture plays in whether and how people come to think of medical problems as legal problems. Uncovering how media and the civic and legal social climate influence what people think and what they do when it comes to law not only helps explain the role of these types of culture in shaping people's decisions, but also helps practitioners and activists understand how when the media can encourage citizens to mobilize their rights. Additionally, the study contributes to understanding how legal resources may be translated into health advantages. One crucial resource that is often overlooked by medical sociologists is legal assistance. Under what conditions do families turn to law to help remedy a child's medical problems? Findings may encourage medical sociologists to more routinely consider law as an additional kind of resource that families mobilize for health.<br/><br/>In each of four cities selected to reflect distinctive characteristics, the PI will interview 25 families of children who have experienced the same serious, but often preventable , medical injury (Erb's Palsy, a brachial plexus birth injury) about their decisions whether or not to pursue legal action against their doctor. The four cities vary in terms of overall civic climate and extent of exposure to recent media activities surrounding tort reform initiatives. The possible influence of such media is unclear, especially because the messages surrounding different interests in tort reform initiatives are in tension with one another. A message that plaintiffs are ""greedy"" and ""ruining the system for everyone"" could make people more reluctant to sue, while a message that ""plaintiffs usually win large amounts"" may increase people's likelihood of suing. Moreover, these messages may play out differently or have more or less salience in cities with different social characteristics. The expectation is that individuals' decisions are shaped by their social contexts and the unique combinations of civic, legal, and media climates.","crimson_atom","Media and Legal Influences on Decision-Making",
"1355740","Collaborative Research: Social and Biogenetic Factors of New Forms of Families","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2014","7/23/2015","Rosanna Hertz","MA","Wellesley College","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$125,952.00 ","","rhertz@wellesley.edu","106 Central Street","Wellesley","MA","106 Central Street, Wellesley, MA","24818204","7812832079","SBE","1331, 7603","7567, 9150, 9178, 9229, 9251","$0.00 ","This research explores the relationship between the social and technological developments associated with infertility treatment and social media. First, it investigates the new kinds of relationships that emerge among children who share the same egg or sperm donor, and among the parents (and other relatives) of these ""donor siblings."" Second, it explores how important people think their genes are to understanding their relationships to other people. This exploration focuses on people's beliefs about how much genes shape and limit our characteristics and life outcomes. The proposed research will add to Sociology's theories of, and practical knowledge about, two related sets of issues: 1) how and why new forms of kinship are created and sustained in today's world; and 2) how individuals understand what social and biogenetic influences contribute to individual behavior and family dynamics. These issues will be explored among people who are part of various family types, people in different geographic regions, and people who represent different social, economic, and racial/ethnic groups.<br/><br/>The research is based on online surveys distributed to parents who have children conceived through gametes and to teens and adults who were conceived through gametes. The information from these surveys will be used to identify people who are appropriate for in-depth interviews and to provide background for what the researchers learn from those interviews. These interviews will involve parents and children from a range of family types, regions, and social positions. <br/><br/>This research has many broader impacts related to family and household development. It will also provide insight into new notions of considering and acting upon familial health histories. In additional to academic publishing, the investigators will enhance their own teaching about the sociology of the family and plan to design special materials about this topic that others who teach in relevant fields can adapt for their own use. Undergraduates at both Middlebury College and Wellesley College also will be involved in the research.","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: Social and Biogenetic Factors of New Forms of Families",
"1558207","Collaborative Research: The Role of Information & Influence Campaigns in Structuring Public Responses to U.S. policy, 1988 - 2015","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","8/15/2016","Robert Brulle","PA","Drexel University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","4/30/2019","$118,745.00 ","","brullerj@drexel.edu","1505 Race St, 8th Floor","Philadelphia","PA","1505 Race St, 8th Floor, Philadelphia, PA","191021119","2158955849","SBE","1331","9251","$0.00 ","Collaborative Research: The Role of Information & Influence Campaigns in Structuring Public Responses to U.S. Policy, 1988-2015<br/><br/>There is a growing consensus that public debate has been transformed through the increased use of information and influence campaigns (IICs) by a range of organizations to affect political decision-making around a variety of nationally important issues. This research aims to explain the extent and impact of these strategic communications campaigns. To do this, the project: (1) maps which organizations participate in specific national issue debates; (2) conducts an extended analysis of communications tools and tactics used in public contexts for purposes of influence; and (3) examines the viewpoints and motivations guiding the actors who carry out these activities. The project considers the political contests and the coordination of resources among a wide variety of actors, including corporations, trade associations, research institutes, regulatory bodies, advocacy organizations, and governmental and non-governmental organizations over a 27-year period from 1988-2015. This research supports efforts to increase the role of the behavioral sciences in the federal government's policy development and implementation. This research informs policy makers about the complex processes of interaction that are part of the design and development of policy, and thus contribute to policy makers' ability to better engage businesses and the public in the development and implementation of government policy. It also contributes to multiple areas of research in sociology, political science and media studies.<br/><br/><br/>The overall objective of this research is to critically inquire into the extent, influence, and impact of professional advocacy campaigns on debates in the public sphere. The research will explain the extent and impact of strategic communications campaigns on political and public responses to specific policy efforts. To achieve this goal, the project maps the organization of one specific public policy area and analyzes the factors that influence its shape over time. The researchers conduct an extended analysis of communications tools and tactics used in public contexts for purposes of influence. The researchers also carry out extended field observations and interviews to develop a situated understanding of the viewpoints, motivations, and schemes guiding the actors who carry out these activities. Combining methods from sociology and communication studies, the researchers will (a) apply a macro-level network analysis to map which organizations have been featured in this issue arena between 1988 and 2015, what functions they serve, and how media and government forums help to establish each organization's level of prominence and legitimacy; (b) gather organizational characteristics to define and analyze the factors that drive the nature, extent, and impact of professional advocacy in this issue area (meso-level analysis); (c) conduct semi-structured interviews and observations at major industry events to assess the motives and rationales of the actors who create information and influence campaigns in this issue arena (micro-level analysis). The research contributes to understanding how social networks and institutional arrangements shape participants' understandings and thinking about policy issues. The research can assist scholars, policy advocates, and policymakers in developing better communications strategies that target particular publics and lead to more efficacious policy development.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Role of Information & Influence Campaigns in Structuring Public Responses to U.S. policy, 1988 - 2015",
"1155797","Social Integration, Stress, and Ambition in Transitions to Adulthood","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/1/2012","1/11/2016","Karen Van Gundy","NH","University of New Hampshire","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$212,000.00 ","Cesar Rebellon, Corinna Tucker, Erin Sharp","karen.vangundy@unh.edu","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107","Durham","NH","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107, Durham, NH","38243585","6038622172","SBE","1331","0000, 9150, 9251, OTHR","$0.00 ","Abstract<br/><br/>This study examines how youths' stress exposure, social integration, and aspirations affect their well-being as they transition to adulthood. We focus on youth in an isolated rural region where communities that were once sustained by jobs in pulp and paper mills have experienced the closing of these mills in recent years. Our research explores how youth outcomes,such as health, deviancy, education, and work,are related to family-, school-, and community-related stress experiences, integration, and aspirations. Building on the stress-process literature in sociology, this research likewise examines how sex, age, and socioeconomic differences in well-being are linked to stress, social integration, and aspirations. Finally, this research examines the degree to which links between stress exposure and the above forms of well-being differ depending on youths' levels of social integration and aspirations. <br/><br/>We build on an existing two-wave population-based quantitative survey of youth who were in 7th and 11th grades in 2008, and on qualitative interviews with a subsample of 24 7th graders and their mothers. We will collect an additional wave of survey data from the original youth participants, and conduct follow-up interviews with the original qualitative study participants. Our interdisciplinary (e.g., Sociology, Justice Studies, Family Studies, and Education) and mixed-method approach will allow us to examine in-depth and over time the experiences relevant for successful transitions to adulthood in an understudied population facing a unique set of economic and developmental challenges.<br/><br/>The broader impacts of our study include our involvement of undergraduate and graduate student assistants across all phases of the research, ranging from data collection and management to analysis and dissemination. Benefits to students include various opportunities to complete senior, MA, and PhD theses and dissertations, and many other possibilities for collaboration on research and outreach with faculty and community leaders. Senior faculty researchers will continue to disseminate project information, results, and policy-relevant material via scholarly journals and national conference presentations, on which student co-authorship across disciplines will be a priority. In addition, our team will continue to establish and foster local collaborative partnerships with the long-term goal of designing, implementing, and evaluating innovative interventions that promote the successful transition to adult roles in rural Communities facing unique economic challenges. In keeping with the University of New Hampshire Carsey Institute's mission of ""building knowledge for families and communities,"" the information gleaned from the project will be the subject of presentations, lectures, policy briefs, and other public service activities relevant to the promotion of youth and young adult well-being locally and nationally. The project will promote scientific inquiry and practice by contributing to stress and life course theory, research, and policy development.","crimson_battery","Social Integration, Stress, and Ambition in Transitions to Adulthood",
"1423524","Health Lifestyles and the Reproduction of Inequality","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","6/29/2015","Stefanie Mollborn","CO","University of Colorado at Boulder","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$184,649.00 ","","mollborn@colorado.edu","3100 Marine Street, Room 481","Boulder","CO","3100 Marine Street, Room 481, Boulder, CO","803031058","3034926221","SBE","1331","9178, 9251, 9179","$0.00 ","Health is playing an increasing role in our understandings of social inequality. Researchers and policy makers recognize that health behaviors are often resistant to change. Seeking to understand this problem, some have begun focusing on health lifestyles. These are defined as groups of interrelated health behaviors, rooted in social identities related to understandings of health, responsibility, and risk, that are shaped by knowledge and resources and that have important consequences for health and other life outcomes. This lifestyle approach acknowledges that health behaviors do not happen in a vacuum; rather, they co-occur in sets and influence one another. These sets of health behaviors arise from deeply rooted identities that, if they do not themselves change, can undermine efforts to alter behaviors. <br/><br/>The research focuses on three major unanswered questions: (1) What received health lifestyles do children get from their parents? (2) How do those received health lifestyles evolve into achieved health lifestyles across early life? (3) What are the implications of young people's health lifestyles for their development and health? Combining qualitative and quantitative methods, this project bridges different ""faces"" of sociological social psychology in considering both behaviors and identities and the social norms, structures, and interactions that shape them. The project draws from and contributes to several areas of sociological theory besides health lifestyles: the intergenerational reproduction of inequalities, identity development in children and youth, the reciprocal process of socialization, cultural health capital, and the life course theoretical perspective. Quantitative analyses use three longitudinal surveys that cover different phases of the early life course: the Early Childhood Longitudinal Study's Birth and Kindergarten Cohorts, and the Add Health survey. The project also collects original qualitative data observing family interactions and interviewing parents, with supplemental parent focus groups and school personnel interviews. <br/><br/>In addition to scholarly, academic, and public dissemination of findings, this research has the potential to benefit society. Understanding prevalent patterns of health behaviors and associated identity development among children and youth is important for ultimately improving their development, health, and well-being. Understanding their health lifestyles may help reduce inequalities in their life outcomes. Student training and learning is an integral part of the project, with research assistants heavily involved in data collection, analysis, and dissemination of findings. The project will be integrated into the principal investigator's undergraduate and graduate teaching, and findings will be presented in a graduate student workshop.","crimson_battery","Health Lifestyles and the Reproduction of Inequality",
"1551476","Civil Society Organizations, Social Media, and Public Attention","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/29/2015","7/28/2015","Christopher Bail","NC","Duke University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","9/30/2016","$77,173.00 ","","christopher.bail@duke.edu","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710","Durham","NC","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710, Durham, NC","277054010","9196843030","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","This project aims to explain how non-profit organizations, advocacy groups, social movement organizations and other civil society organizations attract public attention via social media. Though hundreds of thousands of organizations produce social media messages each day, only a small fraction of these ""go viral"" and reach broad segments of social media users beyond their core audience. To explain this process, this project develops a novel theory that combines insights from cultural sociology, social psychology, and social network theory. <br/><br/>The project develops an innovative app-based technology in order to examine this theory. Organizations will be recruited to use this new technology to study traffic to their Facebook pages. This project produces an aggregate database that enables civil society organizations to learn from the successes and failures of their peers in attracting visitors. The organizations will share their data in order to produce what will be the largest study of how organizations reach new audiences via social media to date. This new methodology will enable, safe, efficient transmission of very large amounts of high quality social science data and provides a cost effective mechanism to address declining survey response rates that also provides a public good.<br/><br/>The study's unique research design will directly benefit civil society organizations that participate by providing them with analysis of how they might reach new audiences online. The project will also produce a very large dataset of multiple years of interaction between hundreds of organizations and hundreds of millions of people that will enable analysis of a broad range of variables related to collective behavior, cultural sociology, social psychology, and social networks. And the study will provide mentorship and professional opportunities and training for graduate student research assistants.","crimson_battery","Civil Society Organizations, Social Media, and Public Attention",
"1357055","Collaborative Research: Community Reactions to Extreme Weather Events","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","8/4/2015","Hilary Boudet","OR","Oregon State University","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$259,929.00 ","","hilary.boudet@oregonstate.edu","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY","Corvallis","OR","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY, Corvallis, OR","973318507","5417374933","SBE","1331","7567, 9251, 9179","$0.00 ","The proposed research project develops an understanding of collective mobilization and civic policy by examining community responses to extreme weather events. This project assesses how these extreme weather events may impact public awareness, community action, and civic response to issues of climate change. By undertaking a systematic comparative case analysis of communities in the United States which recently experienced extreme weather events, this project will make it possible to understand under what conditions and via what mechanisms communities undertake significant climate-related actions following an extreme weather event. Through this study,insights from two distinct literatures will be brought to bear on the question of variable community response: the general literature on social movements and the more specialized scholarship on climate change awareness and action from the fields of environmental sociology and psychology. <br/><br/>The project will employ fuzzy set Qualitative Comparative Analysis and a variety of data collection techniques, including data from newspapers, site visits and interviews, and community to surveys. The PIs will employ both graduate and undergraduate students in its implementation. Its interdisciplinary nature, which combines both sociological and technical expertise, will provide a unique opportunity for teaching, training and learning for these students. The research also has important implications beyond the academy. Scholars, civic leaders, and the public are paying increasing attention to the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. A host of real world actors are eager to understand the dynamic processes that mediate between awareness and action. By learning more about the factors and processes that convert awareness into action, stakeholders would be in a much better position to serve as agents helping to address critical challenges. Progress on this front can turn the teachable moments that arise with extreme weather events into lessons that can be applied in practical contexts.","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: Community Reactions to Extreme Weather Events",
"1357068","Collaborative Research: REU: Community Reactions to Extreme Weather Events","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","8/20/2014","Doug McAdam","CA","Stanford University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$64,911.00 ","","mcadam@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","The proposed research project develops an understanding of collective mobilization and civic policy by examining community responses to extreme weather events. This project assesses how these extreme weather events may impact public awareness, community action, and civic response to issues of climate change. By undertaking a systematic comparative case analysis of communities in the United States which recently experienced extreme weather events, we will seek to understand under what conditions and via what mechanisms communities undertake significant climate-related actions following an extreme weather event. Through this study, we mean to bring the insights of two distinct literatures to bear on the question of variable community response: the general literature on social movements and the more specialized scholarship on climate change awareness and action from the fields of environmental sociology and psychology. <br/><br/>The project will employ fuzzy set Qualitative Comparative Analysis and a variety of data collection techniques, including data from newspapers, site visits and interviews, and community to surveys. The PIs will employ both graduate and undergraduate students in its implementation. Its interdisciplinary nature, which combines both sociological and technical expertise, will provide a unique opportunity for teaching, training and learning for these students. The research also has important implications beyond the academy. Scholars, civic leaders, and the public are paying increasing attention to the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. A host of real world actors are eager to understand the dynamic processes that mediate between awareness and action. By learning more about the factors and processes that convert awareness into action, stakeholders would be in a much better position to serve as agents helping to address critical challenges. Progress on this front can turn the teachable moments that arise with extreme weather events into lessons that can be applied in practical contexts.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: REU: Community Reactions to Extreme Weather Events",
"1355726","Collaborative Research: Social and Biogenetic Factors of New Forms of Families","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2014","5/27/2015","Margaret Nelson","VT","Middlebury College","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$94,243.00 ","","mnelson@middlebury.edu","14 OLD CHAPEL ROAD","MIDDLEBURY","VT","14 OLD CHAPEL ROAD, MIDDLEBURY, VT","57536000","8024435000","SBE","1331, 7603","7567, 9150, 9229, 9251","$0.00 ","This research explores the relationship between the social and technological developments associated with infertility treatment and social media. First, it investigates the new kinds of relationships that emerge among children who share the same egg or sperm donor, and among the parents (and other relatives) of these ""donor siblings."" Second, it explores how important people think their genes are to understanding their relationships to other people. This exploration focuses on people's beliefs about how much genes shape and limit our characteristics and life outcomes. The proposed research will add to Sociology's theories of, and practical knowledge about, two related sets of issues: 1) how and why new forms of kinship are created and sustained in today's world; and 2) how individuals understand what social and biogenetic influences contribute to individual behavior and family dynamics. These issues will be explored among people who are part of various family types, people in different geographic regions, and people who represent different social, economic, and racial/ethnic groups.<br/><br/>The research is based on online surveys distributed to parents who have children conceived through gametes and to teens and adults who were conceived through gametes. The information from these surveys will be used to identify people who are appropriate for in-depth interviews and to provide background for what the researchers learn from those interviews. These interviews will involve parents and children from a range of family types, regions, and social positions. <br/><br/>This research has many broader impacts related to family and household development. It will also provide insight into new notions of considering and acting upon familial health histories. In additional to academic publishing, the investigators will enhance their own teaching about the sociology of the family and plan to design special materials about this topic that others who teach in relevant fields can adapt for their own use. Undergraduates at both Middlebury College and Wellesley College also will be involved in the research.","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: Social and Biogenetic Factors of New Forms of Families",
"1456134","Social Science Research on Gender and Reproduction","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","4/1/2015","3/17/2015","Rene Almeling","CT","Yale University","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","3/31/2017","$153,758.00 ","","rene.almeling@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","SBE","1331, 7603","9179, 7567","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This research project will examine the historical and contemporary processes through which men have come to be overlooked in the realm of reproduction with regards to biomedical knowledge. Very recently, medical researchers have been making headlines with a surprising series of findings about how men's age, health, and behavior at the time of conception affect reproductive outcomes, including miscarriage, birth defects, and children's health. The recent emergence of basic information about men's reproductive bodies reveals a profound gap in biomedical knowledge that stands in sharp contrast to the enormous efforts made to understand women's reproductive bodies over the past two centuries. This gap is especially puzzling in that the male body was the standard for research up to and including the 1990s; during this period, most medical research was conducted with samples of middle-aged, white men on the assumption that the results would generalize to the rest of the population. This project will not only examine how this gap in knowledge came about, it will also explore the social, clinical, and policy consequences that resulted from the gap. The results of this research result will eventually be made available in a book published with an academic press, in articles published in sociology journals, by way of lectures at social scientific conferences, and by promoting increased public awareness of these issues through media interviews and op-eds. The investigator will also publish journal articles and commentaries in medical and public health journals, give talks at medical conferences, and work with public health scholars to craft messages for public health campaigns.<br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>The investigator will build on social scientific research on gender, medicine, and reproduction to address her primary research question, which is: How do biological, cultural, and organizational processes interact in the production, dissemination, and reception of biomedical knowledge about men and reproductive health issues? She will answer it in three stages. First, she will examine the production of biomedical knowledge by analyzing historical and contemporary medical documents and by conducting interviews with researchers and clinicians. Next, she will examine whether and how such knowledge is disseminated to the public by conducting a content analysis of reports published by federal health agencies, medical organizations, and the media. Finally, she will examine the reception of biomedical knowledge by conducting interviews with approximately one-hundred men to analyze how they think about their role in reproduction, as well as how they respond to emerging biomedical knowledge about how men's age, health, and behavior affects children's health. The project will contribute to social scientific debates about how biological and social processes coalesce to influence both medical knowledge and individual experiences of reproduction. It will make theoretical and empirical contributions to sociological, anthropological, and historical literature on reproduction and gender, motherhood and fatherhood, bodies and embodiment, knowledge, health and medicine. It will also generate an analytic framework for examining how particular biological processes, such as those associated with reproduction, come together with particular social processes, such as specific cultural norms and organizational infrastructures, to produce gaps in biomedical knowledge.","crimson_battery","Social Science Research on Gender and Reproduction",
"1558264","Collaborative Research: The Role of Information & Influence Campaigns in Structuring Public Responses to U.S. policy, 1988 - 2015","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/26/2016","Melissa Aronczyk","NJ","Rutgers University New Brunswick","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","4/30/2019","$180,595.00 ","","melissa.aronczyk@rutgers.edu","33 Knightsbridge Road","Piscataway","NJ","33 Knightsbridge Road, Piscataway, NJ","88543925","8489320150","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","Collaborative Research: The Role of Information & Influence Campaigns in Structuring Public Responses to U.S. Policy, 1988-2015<br/><br/>There is a growing consensus that public debate has been transformed through the increased use of information and influence campaigns (IICs) by a range of organizations to affect political decision-making around a variety of nationally important issues. This research aims to explain the extent and impact of these strategic communications campaigns. To do this, the project: (1) maps which organizations participate in specific national issue debates; (2) conducts an extended analysis of communications tools and tactics used in public contexts for purposes of influence; and (3) examines the viewpoints and motivations guiding the actors who carry out these activities. The project considers the political contests and the coordination of resources among a wide variety of actors, including corporations, trade associations, research institutes, regulatory bodies, advocacy organizations, and governmental and non-governmental organizations over a 27-year period from 1988-2015. This research supports efforts to increase the role of the behavioral sciences in the federal government's policy development and implementation. This research informs policy makers about the complex processes of interaction that are part of the design and development of policy, and thus contribute to policy makers' ability to better engage businesses and the public in the development and implementation of government policy. It also contributes to multiple areas of research in sociology, political science and media studies.<br/><br/><br/>The overall objective of this research is to critically inquire into the extent, influence, and impact of professional advocacy campaigns on debates in the public sphere. The research will explain the extent and impact of strategic communications campaigns on political and public responses to specific policy efforts. To achieve this goal, the project maps the organization of one specific public policy area and analyzes the factors that influence its shape over time. The researchers conduct an extended analysis of communications tools and tactics used in public contexts for purposes of influence. The researchers also carry out extended field observations and interviews to develop a situated understanding of the viewpoints, motivations, and schemes guiding the actors who carry out these activities. Combining methods from sociology and communication studies, the researchers will (a) apply a macro-level network analysis to map which organizations have been featured in this issue arena between 1988 and 2015, what functions they serve, and how media and government forums help to establish each organization's level of prominence and legitimacy; (b) gather organizational characteristics to define and analyze the factors that drive the nature, extent, and impact of professional advocacy in this issue area (meso-level analysis); (c) conduct semi-structured interviews and observations at major industry events to assess the motives and rationales of the actors who create information and influence campaigns in this issue arena (micro-level analysis). The research contributes to understanding how social networks and institutional arrangements shape participants' understandings and thinking about policy issues. The research can assist scholars, policy advocates, and policymakers in developing better communications strategies that target particular publics and lead to more efficacious policy development.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Role of Information & Influence Campaigns in Structuring Public Responses to U.S. policy, 1988 - 2015",
"1260440","A Proposal to Continue 'A National Data Program for the Social Sciences'","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY, GSS-Sociology, GSS-ST&S, GSS-MM&S, GSS-Law&Social Science, SCIENCE & ENGINEERNG INDICATRS, Geography & Spatial Scie-GSS, , ","10/1/2013","10/27/2014","Tom Smith","IL","National Opinion Research Center","Continuing grant","Patricia White","9/30/2016","$7,368,671.00 ","Michael Hout, Peter Marsden","smitht@norc.uchicago.edu","1155 E. 60th Street","Chicago","IL","1155 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL","606372745","7732566000","SBE","1331, 1332, 7966, 8036, 8038, 8039, 8804, 8809, M176, M177","1331, 1333, 1352, 1372, 7433, 7603, 9178, 9251, 9278, 7966","$0.00 ","Tom Smith <br/>Michael Hout <br/>Peter Marsden <br/><br/>This project supports the National Data Program for the Social Sciences (NDPSS) to conduct the 2014 General Social Survey (GSS) and the 2014 United States allied survey in the International Social Survey Program (ISSP). The NDPSS is a social indicators, infrastructure, and data dissemination program. It gathers data to (1) monitor and explain trends, changes and constants in attitudes, behaviors, and attributes and examine the structure and functioning of society in general, as well as the role of various sub-groups; (2) compare the United States to other societies, by developing cross-national models of human society; and (3) make high quality data easily accessible to scholars, students, and others with minimal cost and waiting. The GSS is a regular, ongoing interview survey of U.S households. The mission of the GSS is to make timely high-quality scientifically relevant data available to social science researchers. Since 1972 the GSS (with NSF support) has conducted 28 in-person, cross-sectional surveys of the adult household population of the U S with approximately 55,087 respondents. GSS content is wide ranging with approximately 5,416 variables overall. The ISSP facilitates cross-national research in 48 nations that use data collection programs modeled on the GSS. <br/><br/>The NDPSS has been collecting high quality, full-probability data in the United States since 1972 and cross-national data since 1982. Using the most scientifically rigorous of survey designs, the GSS is widely acknowledged to represent the ""gold standard"" in contemporary survey research. The GSS/ISSP surveys monitor societal change in the United States and place American society in comparative perspective. These data are used to develop and test models of societal change and other social processes. The GSS and ISSP have contributed to advancing knowledge of age-period-cohort effects; changes in intergroup relations, gender roles, family structure and values, attitudes about civil liberties; the impact of globalization on national identity; and other social and political aspects of society. The renewal proposal supports several enhancements, upgrades and innovations to the GSS. These include 1) the updating of the sample frame, 2) the linkage of GSS cases to the National Death Index, 3) the expansion of auxiliary and aggregate-level data, 4) adding new design-effects variables, 5) additional hypernetwork samples of congregations and employers, 6) updating coding of occupation and industry and a new measurement of occupational prestige, 7) expanding the ISSP and cross-national research methods, 8) adding new modules on social media use and technological change, and 9) analyzing the GSS panel data to study gross and net change and clarify causal connections, <br/><br/>Broader Impacts <br/><br/>The NDPSS has already had enormous impact beyond the boundaries of the survey itself. The GSS is held as the ""gold standard"" by which many other survey data collection activities are measured, and the ISSP program has led to innovations and developments in cross-cultural and cross-national research. The user community includes researchers, college and university faculty, graduate and undergraduate students, business planners, the media and public officials. Sociologists, political scientists, economists, statisticians, survey methodologists, anthropologists, geographers, biologists, engineers, psychologists, criminologist, legal scholars, medical/health researchers, and business administration and management scholars use GSS data. The GSS is widely disseminated and easily accessible, supporting research and education of groups that are traditionally under-represented in the conduct of social scientific research. The use of the GSS is widely documented in publications, with over 20,000 publications citing the use of GSS data. The GSS uses a state-of-the-art interview-to-internet archiving and dissemination system that speeds access to the interview data and allows users to access all information associated with each variable in a database. The contributions of the GSS to the teaching of quantitative social science analysis are unprecedented and unmatched. Its accessibility and ease of use has added value far beyond the original data collection efforts, and researchers continue to mine both the old and new data to advance knowledge and test theories. The GSS and ISSP program are part of the core infrastructure of social science research in the U.S.","crimson_atom","A Proposal to Continue 'A National Data Program for the Social Sciences'",
"1426811","Conference series on Network Science in Economics","SES","ECONOMICS","7/15/2014","9/8/2016","Myrna Wooders","TN","Vanderbilt University","Continuing grant","Kwabena Gyimah-Brempong","6/30/2018","$106,476.00 ","","myrna.wooders@vanderbilt.edu","Sponsored Programs Administratio","Nashville","TN","Sponsored Programs Administratio, Nashville, TN","372350002","6153222631","SBE","1320","7556, 9150, 9178","$0.00 ","Networks are crucial in understanding economic outcomes. Multiple key economic questions require a network analysis. Whether an individual purchases one commodity or another may depend on from whom he seeks advice about prices and product qualities. The care given to a patient in a hospital and how much it costs can depend on the network connections of the hospital and of the physician. Understanding how networks form, how they are used and their structure in diverse situations is important to almost all aspects of the social sciences. To understand the fundamental properties of networked societies and economies, those that may hold in diverse situations, it is crucial to develop a deeper understanding of network theory from multiple perspectives.<br/><br/>Networks Conferences is for a series of four conferences to take place over four years. Network theory and application have reached the point where such a series is needed to advance research in the area, to disseminate work in progress, to enable promising research to find a critical audience and to obtain valuable feedback, to provide new researchers to the area and graduate students a source of exposure to some of the cutting-edge, new and path-breaking research on networks. <br/><br/>Each conference in the series will have a theme but all papers submitted relevant to the general focus of the conference series will be considered. Key economic issues of interest include networked markets, contagion and diffusion, homophily, segregation and discrimination, networks in economic development, and inequality. Cooperative and non-cooperative game theoretic approaches as well as decision-theoretic approaches will be relevant. There are also related theoretical and econometric issues of developing new models and statistical techniques for estimating networked interactions, which may also be treated.<br/><br/>Within the context of networked models there will be presentations of research on labor markets, risk-sharing networks, financial networks, market design, experimental and field research with emphasis on testing the predictions of network theory, and estimation of networked models. The organizers will invite speakers doing related research from other disciplines, including computer science and sociology.<br/><br/>While networks have been a central area of study in sociology, they have only emerged as an important -- and now rapidly growing -- part of economics over roughly the last decade. This has been accompanied by astonishing growth of research on networks in computing science, statistical physics, and engineering. The conference series will provide opportunities for stimulating cross-disciplinary interactions. <br/>The annual conferences would also serve expose current PhD students and young researchers to cutting edge research in networks. Besides inviting some of the most promising PhD students that can be identified to the conference, the conference series will maintain a website to inform others about the program and its contents. Most important, the conference series can help bring together scholars, especially those who might be somewhat isolated, and enable them to reach a critical mass to provide each other with feedback over time on ongoing projects.","crimson_atom","Conference series on Network Science in Economics",
"1452875","CAREER: A Closed-Loop Methodology for Investigating Trust, Culture, and Information Sharing in Global Supply Chains","CMMI","MANFG ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS","9/1/2015","1/23/2015","Yanchong Karen Zheng","MA","Massachusetts Institute of Technology","Continuing grant","Donald Hearn","8/31/2020","$249,991.00 ","","yanchong@MIT.EDU","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21394301","6172531000","ENG","1786","071E, 078E, 1045, 1321, 1786, 9102","$0.00 ","This Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program grant will combine mathematical modeling and human-subject experiments to study the impacts of trust and culture on information sharing in global supply chains. Supply chains today transcend country borders and therefore, can be difficult to manage. To ensure economic and market efficiency, it is critical that truthful information sharing occurs between business partners within a supply chain. This grant supports an integrative research and education plan to advance the field of operations management (OM) by incorporating two new aspects that have not previously been considered: (i) behavioral motives of the human decision makers involved in the information sharing process and (ii) cultural heterogeneity in a global supply chain. The research will lead to the design of new supply chain processes that incorporate behavioral and cultural factors to improve information sharing in global supply chains. The multidisciplinary approach will facilitate scientific collaboration across different fields including OM, economics, psychology, and sociology. It will broaden the participation of undergraduates, females, and underrepresented minorities in research in the STEM domain. The unique cross-cultural focus will enable and stimulate international collaboration in research and education.<br/><br/>This award will transform the Operations Management (OM) discipline by developing a scientific methodology to incorporate important insights from psychology and sociology into OM theories and applications. The canonical OM research in information sharing is theoretical in nature and has mainly focused on pecuniary incentives. However, OM systems are managed by humans who are often subject to nonpecuniary incentives that include behavioral and cultural factors. Thus, systems designed without considering these latent factors are prone to failures. This grant fills this gap and strengthens the theoretical and practical values of OM research. The research agenda contains three parts. First, the supply chain information sharing scenario will be mathematically modeled and analyzed based on canonical economic theories. Second, theoretical predictions obtained in part one will guide the scientific design of human-subject experiments both in the lab and in the field to systematically study the impacts of trust and culture on supply chain information sharing. Third, based on empirical insights from the experiments, new theories on strategic information sharing will be developed to capture the elements of trust and culture. This methodology pioneers a closed-loop framework in OM research in which theories inform the design of behavioral experiments, and experimental results in turn lead to enhanced theories that better predict human behavior and improve management prescriptions.","golden_atom","CAREER: A Closed-Loop Methodology for Investigating Trust, Culture, and Information Sharing in Global Supply Chains",
"1261560","Uneven Growth, Economic Inequality and Social Conflict","SES","ECONOMICS","6/1/2013","3/4/2013","Debraj Ray","NY","New York University","Standard Grant","Kwabena Gyimah-Brempong","5/31/2017","$170,468.00 ","","debraj.ray@nyu.edu","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S","NEW YORK","NY","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S, NEW YORK, NY","100121019","2129982121","SBE","1320","","$0.00 ","Abstract <br/>Proposal Title: Uneven Growth, Economic Inequality and Social Conflict <br/>Proposal Number: SES - 1261560<br/>Principal Investigator: Ray, Debraj<br/><br/>In many developing countries, economic growth has been fundamentally uneven. The effect of uneven growth and economic inequality on the potential for violent social conflict is the subject of this project. It continues and extends a research program on economic development, distribution and conflict. That program rests on two core assertions. First, social conflict has strong economic correlates: variables such as per-capita income and natural resource revenues shape the incidence and extent of such conflict. Yet, classical expressions of conflict between economic haves and have-nots are relatively rare; often, warring groups are demarcated by noneconomic markers such as ethnicity or religion. Previous research has shown that ethnic polarization and fractionalization strongly influences conflict. <br/><br/>The current project takes the research a step further by considering the economic characteristics of ethnic groups and how these enter into the determination of social conflict over and above the demographic characteristics. The analysis begins with a significant extension of the theoretical framework introduced by Esteban and Ray (American Economic Review vol. 101, 1345-1374, 2011) to include joint economic and demographic determinants of ethnic conflict. It is shown that the two sets of variables interact in specific ways, that discipline the functional relationships to be tested and (in some cases) estimated. The emphasis in is on within-group and cross-group economic inequality and its effects on conflict. The empirical exercise based on the theory is applied to a cross-section of countries.<br/><br/>The project then uses the same framework to inform an empirical study of Hindu-Muslim violence in India. The emphasis in this section is on changes in group per-capita incomes (rather than within-group distribution). It is argued that Muslim group incomes in India have been positively associated with subsequent religious conflict, while the opposite is true of Hindu incomes. The theory permits an interpretation of this striking empirical finding.<br/><br/>The last part of the project theoretically examines a number of complementary arguments that point towards the salience of ethnic violence in the face of economic disparity and uneven change. This part of the project takes a very different route from traditional hypotheses, which would associate such economic characteristics with a greater probability of class, not ethnic, conflict.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts: the study of violent conflict, especially within developing countries, is of immense importance. Uneven growth often involves significant reallocation of resources, human and physical. Even if such growth is warranted from a long-term perspective, it can bring immense hardship in the short to medium run, and it can do so to individuals and groups who will never be adequately compensated in their lifetime. Does economic growth stifle conflict, or might it exacerbate it? What is the relationship between inequality and conflict? Why might class conflict give way to ethnic conflict? The objective is to show how the economic theory of conflict gives rise to a new set of testable predictions which integrates economics, politics and demography. It is hoped that political scientists, sociologists and ethnographers will find such an attempt useful and complementary to their own work. <br/><br/>To this end, the current project continues to push towards a book on the economics of ethnic violence. The intention is to put together, in a cohesive way, a large literature from economics, political science and sociology on the topic of conflict in developing countries. The principal investigator plans to develop and teach a course on ""Uneven Growth and Conflict,"" to develop a detailed outline for the writing of such a book.","crimson_battery","Uneven Growth, Economic Inequality and Social Conflict",
"1327768","IBSS: Understanding Long-Term Effects on Children in Economic Distress","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","9/15/2013","9/14/2013","Marianne Page","CA","University of California-Davis","Standard Grant","Jonathan W. Leland","8/31/2017","$913,496.00 ","Paul Hastings, Amanda Guyer, Katherine Conger","mepage@ucdavis.edu","OR/Sponsored Programs","Davis","CA","OR/Sponsored Programs, Davis, CA","956186134","5307547700","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","This project focuses on understanding the long term effects on children who grow up under conditions of economic distress. We will focus initially on establishing the long term health and labor market impacts of growing up during an economic downturn, and will then focus on understanding potential mechanisms that may operate through physical and mental health. The project emphasizes co-operative interdisciplinary exploration of the pathways by which economic resources affect child development, and will harness multiple datasets (such as the American Community Survey, the Medical Expenditure Survey, The Family Transitions Project and the California Families Project) multiple research methods, (such as linear probability analyses, ""fixed effects"" analyses, latent variable structural equation modeling) and multiple disciplinary perspectives represented by economics, psychology and sociology. <br/><br/>Given that the United States is in the process of slowly recovering from the largest recession since the Great Depression, this project will have broad impact through its clear policy relevance. While the impact of business cycles on adult outcomes is being thoroughly documented, we currently know very little about how they affect the well-being of children. It is natural to assume that the impacts of economic booms and busts must also spill over onto the next generation's long-term success, yet this is largely uncharted research territory. The project's intellectual impact lies in the development of a more holistic approach to understanding the connection between economic resources and child development. The disciplines of economics, psychology and sociology are currently attempting to understand this relationship from completely different angles and in nearly total isolation. The lack of interdisciplinary interaction has created disciplinary voids that produce incomplete understanding of the range of impacts children experience. The project will form a foundation for a network of researchers who are not simply informed about related inquiries that are taking place in other disciplines but who are able to fully incorporate that understanding into more comprehensive research approaches that ultimately yield deeper knowledge about the interrelated impacts of economic downturns. This network will include both faculty and graduate students, who will be trained through both direct immersion in the research projects, and intensive interdisciplinary mentoring and coursework. Finally, the project will enhance the infrastructure of research, as it will involve putting together a new historical employment series, which will be made publicly available to all interested researchers through the principal investigator's website. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: Understanding Long-Term Effects on Children in Economic Distress",
"1348819","The Role of Academic Achievement and Social Inclusion in Broadening STEM Participation: Intended and Actual Attainment at the Intersection of Gender and Race/Ethnicity","HRD","Core R&D Programs","6/1/2014","4/15/2014","Catherine Riegle-Crumb","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Jolene K. Jesse","5/31/2019","$985,224.00 ","Chandra Muller","riegle@austin.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","EHR","7980","8212, SMET","$0.00 ","This study makes a major contribution to the literature on disparities in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education by providing new information about the STEM trajectories of boys and girls from various racial/ethnic subgroups from middle school through the end of college. Using five comprehensive, large-scale and longitudinal datasets, researchers from the University of Texas at Austin will examine differences between subgroups in intended as well as actual STEM attainment and investigate how patterns of academic achievement and social inclusion contribute to those differences. Three of the five datasets are nationally representative samples while the other two were collected in Texas and include large sample populations of Hispanic students. Separately the five datasets provide the opportunity to examine certain unique measures of academic achievement and social inclusion; collectively they provide the chance to investigate STEM trajectories at the intersection of race/ethnicity and gender from the 6th grade to the end of college. Special attention will be paid to the experiences of minority girls/women and minority boys/men to gain a more comprehensive and comparative picture of contemporary patterns of inequality.<br/><br/>The analysis focuses on two research aims: 1) to examine how academic achievement and social inclusion contribute to differences in intended STEM attainment during middle and high school by gender and racial/ethnic subgroup; and 2) to examine how academic achievement and social inclusion contribute to differences in actual STEM attainment during college by gender and racial/ethnic subgroup. Statistical analyses include models using logistic and multinomial logistic regression and multi-level models to examine school or classroom level effects. Intended STEM attainment is measured using the answers to various survey questions about desired occupation and comparing the relative preferences with non-STEM occupations. Academic achievement is measured using grades, test scores and course-taking. Social inclusion is measured using answers to questions about perceived peer and teacher support and perceived equitable treatment. The framework of the study is grounded in theories of intersectionality that focus on the intersection of gender and race/ethnicity and the multiple jeopardy that may apply when one is a member of two different groups with relatively lower status. This analysis uses large-scale data to explicitly address the experiences of different groups and to uncover patterns that may affirm this jeopardy or identify instances of resiliency when students succeed in educational environments.<br/><br/>The ultimate goal of the project is to broaden STEM participation by contributing new knowledge about the factors that promote or impede the retention and attainment of women and minority youth in STEM fields. Findings will be presented at academic and policy-related conferences, published in top-tier peer-reviewed journals in education and sociology, and distributed through press releases to local and national media outlets to reach a broad public audience. The research team will also use their extant relationships with national teacher professional development programs to communicate research findings to key audiences of primary and secondary teachers across the country. Additionally, the project is working to broaden participation through the recruitment and training of women and minority doctoral students in the fields of STEM education and sociology. The diverse perspectives of these students, coupled with the rigorous analytical training they will receive, are critical for preparing future generations of academic researchers to study STEM equality.","mauve_battery","The Role of Academic Achievement and Social Inclusion in Broadening STEM Participation: Intended and Actual Attainment at the Intersection of Gender and Race/Ethnicity",
"1535900","AitF: FULL: Collaborative Research: Modeling and Understanding Complex Influence in Social Networks","CCF","Algorithms in the Field","9/1/2015","8/13/2015","Jie Gao","NY","SUNY at Stony Brook","Standard Grant","Jack Snoeyink","8/31/2018","$356,845.00 ","Jason Jones","jgao@cs.sunysb.edu","WEST 5510 FRK MEL LIB","Stony Brook","NY","WEST 5510 FRK MEL LIB, Stony Brook, NY","117940001","6316329949","CSE","7239","012Z","$0.00 ","Information, beliefs, diseases, technologies, and behaviors propagate through social interactions as a contagion. Understanding of how these contagions spread is crucial in encouraging beneficial and healthy behaviors and discouraging the ones that are destructive and damaging. Rigorous, mathematical understanding of complex social contagions is not just an abstraction, but will guide applications from healthcare to word-of-mouth advertising. The technical content of this project is inherently interdisciplinary, and its lessons will apply to related fields such as probability, economics, sociology, and statistical physics. The research efforts are integrated with the educational and outreach activities of the PIs, who have strong records of broadly disseminating cutting-edge research to high school, undergraduate, and graduate students through teaching, outreach programs, and personal mentoring. <br/><br/>This project will transform our understanding of social contagions by: 1) Developing a suite of technical tools to enable improved understanding of specific complex processes; 2) Determining how various parameters of cascade and social structure together impact the chances of a cascade's success or failure; and 3) Obtaining empirical evidence to both corroborate the theoretical findings, and uncover the space of realistic setting for certain parameters. <br/><br/>Many existing models of contagion assume that increasing the number of infected (or affected) neighbors marginally decreases the chance of infection. Many contagions, such as adoption of expensive new technology, fail to have this property, but instead have more complex rules for infection. This leads to different spreading behaviors even on the same networks. Motivated by sociology research findings, this project will greatly enhance our understanding of social contagions in three aspects. First this project will provide rigorous study of the spreading behavior of a simplified theoretical model called k-complex contagions and its interactions with structures in the underlying graph such as tie strength, unusually influential nodes, and community structures. Second, this project presents a general model for studying cascades that is both theoretically tractable and practically motivated. The general model generalizes most previous theoretical models of complex and simple contagions and includes homophily and environmental factors on cascades. Finally, this project will use post-hoc analysis as well as real world social experiments to verify the veracity of the model and fit the parameters in different settings.","lime_battery","AitF: FULL: Collaborative Research: Modeling and Understanding Complex Influence in Social Networks",
"1535912","AitF: Full: Collaborative Research: Modeling and Understanding Complex Influence in Social Networks","CCF","Algorithms in the Field","9/1/2015","8/13/2015","Grant Schoenebeck","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Jack Snoeyink","8/31/2018","$363,154.00 ","","schoeneb@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","CSE","7239","012Z","$0.00 ","Information, beliefs, diseases, technologies, and behaviors propagate through social interactions as a contagion. Understanding of how these contagions spread is crucial in encouraging beneficial and healthy behaviors and discouraging the ones that are destructive and damaging. Rigorous, mathematical understanding of complex social contagions is not just an abstraction, but will guide applications from healthcare to word-of-mouth advertising. The technical content of this project is inherently interdisciplinary, and its lessons will apply to related fields such as probability, economics, sociology, and statistical physics. The research efforts are integrated with the educational and outreach activities of the PIs, who have strong records of broadly disseminating cutting-edge research to high school, undergraduate, and graduate students through teaching, outreach programs, and personal mentoring. <br/><br/>This project will transform our understanding of social contagions by: 1) Developing a suite of technical tools to enable improved understanding of specific complex processes; 2) Determining how various parameters of cascade and social structure together impact the chances of a cascade's success or failure; and 3) Obtaining empirical evidence to both corroborate the theoretical findings, and uncover the space of realistic setting for certain parameters. <br/><br/>Many existing models of contagion assume that increasing the number of infected (or affected) neighbors marginally decreases the chance of infection. Many contagions, such as adoption of expensive new technology, fail to have this property, but instead have more complex rules for infection. This leads to different spreading behaviors even on the same networks. Motivated by sociology research findings, this project will greatly enhance our understanding of social contagions in three aspects. First this project will provide rigorous study of the spreading behavior of a simplified theoretical model called k-complex contagions and its interactions with structures in the underlying graph such as tie strength, unusually influential nodes, and community structures. Second, this project presents a general model for studying cascades that is both theoretically tractable and practically motivated. The general model generalizes most previous theoretical models of complex and simple contagions and includes homophily and environmental factors on cascades. Finally, this project will use post-hoc analysis as well as real world social experiments to verify the veracity of the model and fit the parameters in different settings.","lime_battery","AitF: Full: Collaborative Research: Modeling and Understanding Complex Influence in Social Networks",
"1560089","REU Site: Computational Social Science at the University of Notre Dame","SMA","RSCH EXPER FOR UNDERGRAD SITES","2/15/2016","9/2/2016","Paul Brenner","IN","University of Notre Dame","Continuing grant","Josie S. Welkom","1/31/2019","$231,331.00 ","Gitta Lubke","paul.r.brenner@nd.edu","940 Grace Hall","NOTRE DAME","IN","940 Grace Hall, NOTRE DAME, IN","465565708","5746317432","SBE","1139","9250","$0.00 ","This project is funded from the Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites program in the SBE Directorate. As such, it has both scientific and societal benefits, and it integrates research and education. This award promotes the progress of social science discoveries through the application of advanced computational (computer) applications to solve problems of national interest such as personality analysis (psychology), interpersonal networks (sociology), family savings (economics) and digital introspection and archiving of architectural landmarks (anthropology). Broader impacts will include the critical advancement of education in computational social science as identified in the Presidential Information Technology Advisory Committee report and development of the nation's future social scientists. The program's engagement of under-represented groups and the opportunities for interaction with high school students and international research peers will have a broad impact in their professional STEM development.<br/><br/>This award establishes an REU Site at the Center for Research Computing (CRC) at the University of Notre Dame; an ideal setting for the REU student to become familiar with interdisciplinary computational social science research. The CRC provides access to research groups working across a diverse range of social science problems including (a) Multivariate Data Mining for the Analysis of Personality, (b) Explorations on the Effects of Pervasive Networking on Social Relationships, (c) Developing Large Overlapping Generations Models of Household Savings, and (d) Digital Anthropological and Archaeological Data Capture, Archive, and Analysis. The social science students learn how to use the most current cyberinfrastructure tools and receive training on fundamental scientific computing skills and techniques. The program involves 10 students every summer, and each student spends 10 weeks at the University of Notre Dame. Intellectual merit of the project is grounded in four core areas of expertise: computational psychology, computational sociology, computational economics, and cyberinfrastructure development for the social sciences. The program gives students and faculty participants a chance to carry out collaborative, interdisciplinary research in the computational sciences. Students become part of an interdisciplinary team and experience the rewards of scientific collaboration. For faculty, the REU program offers an opportunity to explore novel research areas and form new collaborations.","crimson_atom","REU Site: Computational Social Science at the University of Notre Dame",
"1252810","RCN: Relational Poverty Network","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","7/1/2013","9/16/2013","Victoria Lawson","WA","University of Washington","Continuing grant","Holly Hapke","6/30/2018","$500,000.00 ","Sarah Elwood","lawson@u.washington.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","SBE","1331, 1352","1331, 1352, 1664","$0.00 ","This project will develop a research collaboration network whose members will generate conceptual and methodological innovations to advance poverty research and solutions. The Relational Poverty Network (RPN) will complement and extend poverty research with a relational conceptualization of poverty, which theorizes poverty as produced and addressed by economic, political, and cultural relationships among social groups. Poverty researchers long have noted the potential of relational poverty approaches as a basis for innovative and viable new analytic tools, yet RPN researchers have identified significant conceptual and methodological challenges to realizing this potential. Because relational poverty research generally has been comprised of isolated, singular case studies, ""scaling up"" relational poverty analysis for larger, cross-disciplinary, and international comparisons introduces a series of fundamental conceptual and measurement challenges. Relational approaches to poverty introduce new objects of study, such as social relations or cultural attitudes toward poverty that are difficult to identify within existing poverty data or to compare across national contexts. Furthermore; building meaningful comparison across case studies has been difficult in the absence of closely coordinated research designs and methods. The RPN will address these challenges by: (1) developing concepts that operationalize relational poverty in ways that can be compared across international empirically grounded research; (2) building descriptive metadata, including quantitative and qualitative sources, to support comparative analysis across research cases as well as synthesis of research findings from individual projects; (3) developing a common research design for robust mixed-methods research and ""many sites-to-many sites"" comparisons; and (4) catalyzing debate and discovery across mainstream and relational poverty research scholars. The core group of 60 social scientists at 30 institutions from which the RPN will grow is cross-disciplinary, including human geographers, sociologists, historians, economists, anthropologists, and philosophers working in the U.S., Argentina, South Africa, India, Canada, and Thailand. The RPN's conceptual and methodological innovations will be realized through four annual workshops conducted at U.S.-based poverty research centers. These workshops will involve RPN participants as well as researchers and practitioners from the sites where the workshops are held. RPN members will develop collaborative grant proposals to carry out their scientific activities. They will co-author research papers, and they will develop publically available educational materials for teaching about relational poverty approaches in multiple disciplinary contexts.<br/><br/>The RPN will have a variety of intellectual and broad impacts. The comparative relational poverty concepts, descriptive metadata, and in-common research design developed by the network will expand the impact of relational approaches within poverty research. The network will seek to attract a broad and diverse range of mainstream and relational poverty researchers into a social science infrastructure. Network members will build a range of other pathways to broaden the scope and intellectual impact of the RPN, including public scholarship, including public talks, articles in popular media, and online discussion forums. They also will engage in a range of education activities, such as innovative classroom activities, service-learning pedagogies, and graduate webinars. The majority of network members will be teacher-scholars working at public universities who will recruit a diverse range of students through regularly taught classes for direct involvement in the network. The RPN will disseminate research and educational resources broadly, both through its own website, publications, and meetings as well as in coordination with seven U.S. poverty centers and the Comparative Research on Poverty Program (CROP), a program of the International Social Science Council (ISSC) at UNESCO.","crimson_atom","RCN: Relational Poverty Network",
"1461132","REU Site: Social Network Analysis for Solving Minority Health Disparities","SMA","RSCH EXPER FOR UNDERGRAD SITES, EXP PROG TO STIM COMP RES","2/15/2015","9/2/2016","Kirk Dombrowski","NE","University of Nebraska-Lincoln","Continuing grant","Josie S. Welkom","1/31/2018","$349,996.00 ","","kdombrowski2@unl.edu","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier","Lincoln","NE","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier, Lincoln, NE","685031435","4024723171","SBE","1139, 9150","9150, 9250","$0.00 ","This project is supported under the Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites program, which is an NSF-wide program although each Directorate administers its own REU Site competition. This program supports active research participation by undergraduate students in an effort to introduce them to scientific research so as to encourage their continued engagement in the nation's scientific research and development enterprise. REU projects involve students in meaningful ways in ongoing research programs or in research projects designed especially for the purpose. The REU program is a major contributor to the NSF's goal of developing a diverse, internationally competitive, and globally-engaged science and engineering workforce. The Social, Behavioral and Economic (SBE) sciences Directorate awarded this REU Site grant to the University of Nebraska ? Lincoln (UNL) in order to stimulate participant interest in social network analysis (SNA) and behavioral health with a focus on minority health disparities. Participants undergo an extensive methodological training in SNA by the project PI while gaining exposure to a range of research topics and potential science research fields. In conjunction with the Minority Health Disparities Initiative (MHDI), they join a collaborative community of transdisciplinary researchers and community health workers from state and local agencies tackling minority health disparities in Nebraska. The expansion of existing REU to Minority Health Disparities is critical for providing students diverse experiences during the summer and expanding the number of students interested in minority health research through innovative methods like social network analysis and culturally sensitive paradigms, such as Community Based Participatory Research (CBPR). Research occurs within 8 participating laboratories that are housed in several departments across two UN campuses. The summer program includes training in professionalism and provide individual career mentoring and cohort activities. Building off of existing recruitment strategies employed by UNL?s Ronald E. McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement Program, the project recruits junior- and senior-level undergraduates from a wide-range of backgrounds, home institutions, ages, gender, and ethnicity, with emphasis on under-represented minority and female students in the Midwest. Participants are encouraged to pursue careers in behavioral health sciences and have opportunities to present the results of their research to both other REU participants and to a wider audience of health practitioners at the annual Nebraska Minority Health Summit, co-sponsored by the Minority Health Disparities Initiative.<br/><br/>Since the late 1990s, a combined focus on social networks and health has had a significant impact on both health research and social science. SNA has emerged as a key analytical lens for sociologists, pushing relational sociology forward at a rapid pace in the last two decades. It has also emerged as a set of general purpose tools and approaches which cross-cut a range of sciences. Without exaggeration, researchers working on networks choose freely among techniques and measures developed from fields as distant as computer security, virology, primatology, and studies of the world-wide-web. Social science, and social network analysis have much to contribute in such a transdiciplinary realm. SNA is among the oldest and most rigorous approaches to network analysis, and one with a rich empirical base. While physicists model human networks as metaphors of more basic physical material, SNA researchers have traditionally sought to draw their abstractions from the actual interaction of human beings. The potential of this approach to influence public health and related fields is already apparent. What is needed now is less borrowing, and more researchers trained across newly interwoven fields. In this program, REU participants learn basic approaches to network SNA and then employ these skills in a range of sponsoring NIH- and NSF-funded research projects at UNL and the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) that focus on minority health and health disparities. Network training takes place in a 2 week intensive network science practicum, followed by 8 weeks of participation in an MHDI-affiliated research project. These projects are united by a collective focus on fundamental questions related both to minority health and to broadening participation in minority health, and are currently funded by a range of federal and state sources. The project is co-funded by the EPSCoR program.","crimson_atom","REU Site: Social Network Analysis for Solving Minority Health Disparities",
"1636961","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Tenant Screening in the Information Age: Implications for Housing Access","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2016","7/8/2016","Katherine Beckett","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$8,820.00 ","Anna Reosti","kbeckett@u.washington.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1636961<br/>Katherine Beckett<br/>Anna Reosti<br/>University of Washington<br/><br/>This project investigates the implications of modern background screening procedures for rental housing access and discrimination in the Seattle metropolitan area. In recent years fair housing advocates have raised concerns regarding the potential discriminatory impacts of the shift toward more information-intense screening practices in the private rental housing market, which utilize commercial background search tools to examine applicants' criminal, credit and eviction histories. In response to such concerns, policymakers in some U.S. jurisdictions have recently made calls to regulate how background check information is used to evaluate rental applicants, particularly with respect to criminal records. In contrast to the employment sphere, few scholars to date have investigated whether and how modern background screening procedures in rental housing provide new opportunities for discrimination, or explored how relevant actors on the ground, such as landlords and tenants, understand such issues. <br/><br/>In an effort to remedy those gaps, this dissertation project investigate tenant screening practices from the dual perspectives of rental housing providers and renters who have recently applied for housing. Interviews with renters who have moved within the last six months will identify understudied impediments to housing access, particularly for renters with discrediting background characteristics such as criminal histories, past evictions and/or damaged credit. That knowledge may help fair and affordable housing advocates and social workers in their efforts to improve rental housing access. Interviews with a group of landlords meanwhile will illuminate what motivates those respondents? approaches to screening applicants and help call attention to institutional dynamics that could frustrate legal reform efforts to advance equity in housing access by regulating background screening practices (e.g. fears of financial liability that discourage landlords from renting to applicants with criminal records). These interviews will be conducted in the wake of the recent release of legal guidance from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) instructing private rental housing providers that policies which categorically exclude applicants with criminal records could run afoul of the Fair Housing Act, and in a metropolitan area where a campaign to ""Ban-the-Box"", or regulate criminal history screening in housing, is currently underway. As such this research should make a timely contribution to ongoing policy ongoing discussions around how to ensure that tenant screening procedures do not unnecessarily jeopardize fair and equal access to rental housing. This study is also poised to make important contributions to multiple bodies of academic scholarship, including the sociological literatures on the collateral consequences of a criminal record, and socio-legal work on anti-discrimination law in action.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Tenant Screening in the Information Age: Implications for Housing Access",
"1540199","Workshop: Future Directions for Science of Organizations","SES","Science of Organizations","5/15/2015","5/6/2015","Sara McComb","IN","Purdue University","Standard Grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","4/30/2017","$50,000.00 ","","sara@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","SBE","8031","","$0.00 ","Nontechnical Description of Significance and Importance<br/>The hallmark of the Science of Organizations is its applicability to a variety of disciplines including business, communication, economics, engineering, information technology, psychology, public administration, and sociology. These disparate disciplines offer varying perspectives about a range of issues associated with organizations of all sizes (e.g., corporations, small non-profit organizations, government agencies, teams) and scopes (e.g., multi-national, local, subsets of larger organizations). At the same time, however, the breadth of disciplines present challenges in identifying areas to strategically grow the field?s research portfolio, encouraging interdisciplinary and international research activities, and promoting the applications of research results. Moreover, methodological advances have occurred that make new, more sophisticated approaches to organizational research possible. A workshop will be held that assembles participants from multiple disciplines to participate in focused discussions about this inherently interdisciplinary field. The successful completion of this workshop has the potential to fundamentally change organizational science research by highlighting new, innovative opportunities for research and promoting opportunities for longitudinal, complex, interdisciplinary research activities. The results of such efforts may provide new insights about how to foster more effective organizations. Significant effort will be made to ensure that underrepresented populations are invited to participate in the workshop. Students will be involved in the workshop, thereby exposing them to cutting-edge research ideas and providing the opportunity to meet leaders in the field of organization science. <br/><br/>Technical Description<br/>The community of Science of Organizations has a strong history of welcoming a broad array of disciplinary perspectives researching organizations of all sizes and scopes, including business, sociology, information/information technology, engineering/operations research, communication, economics, political science, public administration, industrial labor relations, and psychology. The purpose of the proposed workshop is to assemble scholars from these various disciplines to (1) discuss the future of research in science of organizations, (2) identify strategies for encouraging, and rewarding, interdisciplinary and international collaborative research initiatives in the science of organizations community, and (3) brainstorm how to promote the results of research conducted in science of organizations. The one-and-half day workshop will be held on October 1 and 2, 2015 at Purdue University in West Lafayette, IN. Three half-day sessions will each focus on one of the three elements of the workshop purpose. The invited participants will bring a variety of perspectives about the research process including previously funded principal investigators for the Science of Organizations (SoO) program at NSF, journal editors, thought leaders, and active researchers. The complement of participants will engage in rich dialogs about the aforementioned issues that may be instrumental in prioritizing research activities in this field and highlight opportunities for the research community.","crimson_battery","Workshop: Future Directions for Science of Organizations",
"1456897","Standard Grant: Perflourinated Chemicals: The Social Discovery of a Class of Emerging Contaminants","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","4/15/2015","8/29/2016","Phil Brown","MA","Northeastern University","Continuing grant","Frederick M Kronz","3/31/2018","$384,393.00 ","Alissa Cordner","p.brown@neu.edu","360 HUNTINGTON AVE","BOSTON","MA","360 HUNTINGTON AVE, BOSTON, MA","21155005","6173732508","SBE","7603","7567, 9179","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This project investigates the social discovery of per-fluorinated chemicals (PFCs), which are hazardous yet widely used in industrial production. They are an unusual class of chemicals with significant widespread, low-level consumer exposure, important potential climate change emissions, and identified contaminated communities exposed to high levels of contamination. Specifically, this project will examine scientific, regulatory and advocacy action to restrict the use of PFCs. It uses a social discovery approach, which explains the growing awareness of a previously unrecognized or poorly understood social problem, disease, condition, environmental hazard, or other social phenomenon. Examining PFCs as a class of chemicals, the proposed research will investigate the emergence of lay awareness, scientific research, government involvement, media coverage, litigation, and advocacy. The results of this project will provide a greater understanding of why there is a lack of data about the risks of most in-use chemicals. Following on other social scientific studies of chemicals, this work can encourage a more precautionary approach in chemical regulation by identifying and analyzing the consequences of delayed and incomplete restriction of hazardous chemicals. It will also aid in toxics reduction and green chemistry, and it will directly benefit public awareness by disseminating research findings to scientific, advocacy, governmental, and occupational groups. This research will highlight the need for chemical manufacturers to move toward safer chemicals.<br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>This project will provide a thorough understanding of PFCs as a case study for emerging contaminants: how they are used and regulated, how science and activists respond to these contaminants, and why certain groups choose to take up the issue of PFCs. This will contribute to a sociological understanding of how people interact with a contaminated environment through a comparison of site-specific and ubiquitous chemical exposure; to the sociology of risk, by recognizing how the origins of risk can shift without necessarily decreasing the levels of risk; and science studies about how scientific knowledge is created, communicated, and used to inform policy. This project will contribute to the growing number of social science studies on chemical policy, allowing for comparison across different social science studies of chemicals. This research is also significant in combining those broader chemical policy issues with site-specific research on contaminated communities? experience. Research questions to be addressed in the project include the following. How were the dangers of PFCs discovered in the 1970s and re-discovered in the 2000s? How have major contamination episodes impacted the awareness, regulation, and research related to PFCs? What have been the successes and failures of advocates for banning or regulating the use of PFCs in industrial production and in household and consumer products? What competing approaches to risk assessment and risk management are used by corporate PFC producers, regulatory agencies, scientists, affected residents, environmental health organizations, and academic scientists?","crimson_atom","Standard Grant: Perflourinated Chemicals: The Social Discovery of a Class of Emerging Contaminants",
"1260344","Service Access in Premodern Cities","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, POLITICAL SCIENCE, ARCHAEOLOGY","6/15/2013","8/1/2014","Michael Smith","AZ","Arizona State University","Standard Grant","John E. Yellen","5/31/2017","$404,674.00 ","Christopher Boone, Abigail York, Sharon Harlan","mesmith9@asu.edu","ORSPA","TEMPE","AZ","ORSPA, TEMPE, AZ","852816011","4809655479","SBE","1331, 1352, 1371, 1391","1331, 1352, 1371, 1391, 7956, 8605, 9251, 9278","$0.00 ","With National Science Foundation support, Dr. Michael E. Smith and a team of urban experts at Arizona State University will compare the ways city dwellers gained access to urban services in a sample of thirty ancient and historic cities. Planners and city officials today wrestle with difficult decisions about where to locate schools, clinics, parks, and other facilities. Scholars have found that the locations of some urban services allow particular groups better access than others. This project will identify the ways cities have organized their services throughout history. Non-governmental institutions (churches, guilds, neighborhood associations) have played a significant role in providing urban services in the past. Were these services more equally distributed than those provided by city authorities, or did governments do a better job of equitably providing services to residents? By answering these and other questions about services in ancient and historic cities, this project will give scholars and planners a broader base of knowledge to apply to modern cities around the world.<br/>The research team includes experts from four disciplines-archaeology, geography, political science, and sociology. The co-Principal Investigators are Christopher Boone, Sharon Harlan, and Abigail York, with Senior Scientists George Cowgill and Barbara Stark. They will use concepts and methods from these and other fields to produce a broad picture of urban services in the past. The team will select cities from each of fourteen early urban traditions, ranging from ancient Egypt to Medieval Europe. For each city, the team will digitize historical or archaeological maps that portray housing and service facilities. The maps will then be analyzed spatially in a common framework using the methods of Geographical Information Science to show how the locations of service facilities relate to neighborhoods and the residences of elite and commoner families. The target services include shops/commercial services, religious services, and public assembly places. The team will also study historical or archaeological records for each city to reconstruct its social, economic and political patterns. This contextual information will be coded and analyzed in a common framework, and then the team will compare it to the results of the spatial analysis to determine what kinds of cities, political, and economic systems produce more equal service access for urban populations.<br/>This project has three primary intellectual merits: (1) this will be the most rigorous comparative study of premodern cities yet undertaken; (2) the joint work of a team of scholars from four different scholarly disciplines will produce a particularly broad and comprehensive analysis of urban services; and (3) the application of methods and concepts derived from the analysis of modern urban services to a sample of past cities will produce results that are directly comparable to our knowledge of services in contemporary cities. This is a particularly important topic for the rapidly growing cities in the developing nations.<br/>The broader impacts of this study include training and mentoring for two graduate students and a group of undergraduate interns including Hispanic students. In addition, the scientific knowledge we gather and systematically code about premodern cities will inform research and policy on the role of services contemporary urbanization in two ways: (1) it will provide a large comparative sample of cities for scholars and planners to draw on; and (2) it will provide a long-term historical perspective on cities, services, and urban change.","crimson_battery","Service Access in Premodern Cities",
"1546453","BIGDATA: IA: F: Structural Anonymization Techniques for Large, Labeled, and Dynamic Social Graphs","IIS","Big Data Science &Engineering","3/1/2016","9/8/2015","Adriana Iamnitchi","FL","University of South Florida","Standard Grant","Heng Xu","2/28/2019","$661,289.00 ","John Skvoretz","anda@cse.usf.edu","3702 Spectrum Blvd.","Tampa","FL","3702 Spectrum Blvd., Tampa, FL","336129446","8139742897","CSE","8083","7433, 7434, 8083","$0.00 ","The objective of this work is to provide big data owners with tools to safely share their social networks data with the research community. The specific type of big data is large online social graphs that evolve over time due to two different dynamic processes: one is the natural evolution of the graph with edge and node removal and insertion; the other is a dynamic process that changes the state of the vertices of the network. Real, longitudinal social graphs datasets are fundamental to understanding a variety of phenomena, such as epidemics, adoption of behavior, crowd management and political uprisings. However, publishing real data is significantly hampered by serious privacy risks: even when humans' identities are removed, studies have proven repeatedly that de-anonymization is doable with high success rate. This project aims to investigate and compare structural anonymization techniques that rely on generating graphs with given characteristics of the original, real graph. The results of this study alleviate the privacy and security risks related to graph sharing and contribute to a faster understanding of natural and social phenomena on real graphs by facilitating real graph sharing for better, faster, more impactful research. The project also contributes to the understanding of dynamic processes on social graphs; involves graduate and undergraduate students in interdisciplinary research; shares resulting code on github; enhances curriculum via collaborative teaching targeted at Sociology and Computer Science students; and disseminates resulting knowledge to audiences ranging from middleschool to graduate students via presentation, publications, and summer schools.<br/><br/>The project aims to approach graph anonymization via two techniques for graph generation: dK-series techniques, introduced in the context of internet network generation, and Exponential Random Graph Model-based approaches (ERGM), which are the state of the art in modeling social networks in Sociology. For each approach, the project first investigates its effectiveness on anonymizing static social networks sampled from representative datasets (some available, others collected as part of this effort). Second, it adapts the dK series and ERGM techniques to dynamic social networks based on empirical characterizations of the evolution of social relations. Third, the empirically-described dynamic processes are added on top of the static and dynamic networks from the previous steps. And finally, the research focuses on scaling up the computational techniques to be able to anonymize social (thus, sparse) graphs in the order of millions of nodes.","lime_battery","BIGDATA: IA: F: Structural Anonymization Techniques for Large, Labeled, and Dynamic Social Graphs",
"1202575","Terabit per second Data Processing to Extract Features of Interest in Enormous Amount of Data","ECCS","COMMS, CIRCUITS & SENS SYS","7/1/2012","4/20/2012","Alan Willner","CA","University of Southern California","Standard Grant","Hao Ling","6/30/2017","$380,000.00 ","","willner@usc.edu","University Park","Los Angeles","CA","University Park, Los Angeles, CA","900890001","2137407762","ENG","7564","154E","$0.00 ","Intellectual Merit: Fields as diverse as physics, environmental science, and sociology have all been dramatically transformed by the ability to utilize large amounts of data, whether it comes from computers, sensors, storage or imaging. However, the relatively ""slow"" speed of electronic signal processors compared to the rate at which new data is acquired is creating a bottleneck in the timely processing of data. Signal processing may involve: (a) image refining requiring signal processing on all parts of the data, and optical processing can operate with high data rate, or (b) pattern recognition requiring ""scanning"" (i.e., correlating) of the large data to locate a desired feature, and optical processing can potentially take Terabytes of data, rapidly identify key requested features, and then allow electronics to process Gigabytes with more detail. This proposal is to research tunable, reconfigurable complex-coefficient tapped-delay-line optical processors to enhance the processing speed for pattern recognition and data processing. The approach utilizes multiple lasers as optical pumps, a dispersive element with a wavelength-dependent propagation speed, nonlinear wave mixers, and a phase/amplitude programmable filter. All parameters of the proposed scheme (i.e., tap delays and coefficients) can be tuned by varying the power and wavelength of the pump lasers. This allows for bit-rate tunable, data-modulation-format transparent phase/amplitude processing of an optical data signal. This scheme can be used as a building block to realize more advanced functionalities, such as 2-dimentional discrete Fourier transforms.<br/><br/>Broader Impact: This technology has the potential to directly advance many areas that use sophisticated data and image processing (e.g., environmental science, energy and sociology) by providing the capability to sift through very large data sets at faster speeds due to the high-speed ability to encode and manipulate multiple aspects of an optical wave. It can potentially enable new schemes for signal processing and reduce the time of searches within images and video data sets. This proposal hopes to utilize the large bandwidth of optics to perform digital data processing in a fully tunable and reconfigurable fashion, and to hopefully change the way Terabytes of data is processed by significantly improving the processing speed. Given the inter-connection between optics and electronics in this approach, multidisciplinary aspects can be pursued and potentially inspire novel hybrid optical/electronic architectures. Moreover: (a) high-school students will be exposed to the research, and (b) undergraduate and graduate students from diverse backgrounds will receive research training in a multidisciplinary experimental lab environment.","golden_battery","Terabit per second Data Processing to Extract Features of Interest in Enormous Amount of Data",
"1152322","Scholars Award: Map Wars: The History and Sociology of Mapping Practices in Israel and the Palestinian Territories","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","7/1/2012","5/14/2015","Christine Leuenberger","NY","Cornell University","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","6/30/2017","$166,291.00 ","","cal22@cornell.edu","373 Pine Tree Road","Ithaca","NY","373 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY","148502820","6072555014","SBE","7603","7567, 1353","$0.00 ","Introduction<br/>This project explores the interlinkages between science, politics and state-making. The focus is on how the geographical sciences become entangled with politics, territorial claim making, and nation-state building in Israel and the Palestinian Territories since 1948 until today. Qualitative research methods such as in-depth interviewing, ethnography, and archival and library research will be used.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merits<br/>This project investigates: how geography, cartography and mapping practices have become entwined with the building of nation-states; how social, institutional, and political contexts shape map-making; how various actors, institutions, and governments use maps to shape territorial visions; and how maps relate to material structures (such as the West Bank Barrier). The project also aims to develop a systematic and comprehensive methodology to analyze how social and political concerns become embedded in the visual rhetoric of maps. <br/><br/>Potential Broader Impacts<br/>New mapping technologies and software greatly enable user-defined mapping practices. As a result, various social groups increasingly disseminate alternative mappings. In such an environment it is especially pertinent to focus scholarly attention on developing conceptual tools for understanding the rhetoric of mapping practices. The Israeli-Palestinian dispute over mapping provides a rich context for theorizing about alternative mapping practices so as to emphasize the importance of constructing integrative maps that recover diverse geopolitical visions. A careful analyses of how and why different adversarial groups map the same territory differently may serve as a resource for reconciliation; it will contribute to a better understanding of the historical and political genealogy of such diverging practices and provide insight into the social-ethnic histories of diverse populations in Israel and the Palestinian Territories, and in other suitably similar contexts.","crimson_battery","Scholars Award: Map Wars: The History and Sociology of Mapping Practices in Israel and the Palestinian Territories",
"1536265","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Working Lives and Spatial Practices of Digital Media Developers","BCS","GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","8/1/2015","7/15/2015","Matthew Zook","KY","University of Kentucky Research Foundation","Standard Grant","Holly Hapke","1/31/2017","$15,783.00 ","Daniel Cockayne","zook@uky.edu","109 Kinkead Hall","Lexington","KY","109 Kinkead Hall, Lexington, KY","405260001","8592579420","SBE","1352","1352, 8050, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","This project will analyze the production of digital media and software and the spatial transformations and work practices and places to which they contribute. Its specific aim is to examine the systems of privilege - especially gendered privilege and exclusionary standards of masculinity - that influence the work practices and workplaces of digital media developers to shed critical light on the conditions leading to and perpetuating the exclusion of women software engineers from digital media firms. Specific research questions to be investigated include: How are everyday work practices conducted and structured in digital media work by its developers? What are the physical working spaces of digital media developers and how do they support or restrict particular work practices? In what ways are digital media developers' work practices and spaces gendered? Through a detailed study of the gendered spatial practices and dynamics of power in digital media workplaces in San Francisco, this research will contribute theoretical understanding to a range of scholarly disciplines including the sociology of work, new media, social media, geography, feminist theory, and STS. In terms of broader impacts, the findings of this research will inform and enhance efforts to expand participation in the STEM workforce by under-represented segments of the population.<br/><br/>The theoretical framework in which this research project is situated incorporates insights from cultural economic geography, feminist economic geography, and the sociology of work, which emphasize the importance of language, meaning, symbols, power, and subject identities and gendered and/or racialized performances in the economic sphere. The project draws on and contributes to research in these fields that point to the manner in which high tech and other high end service sector (e.g., finance) work presents particular workplace practices and performances of masculinity that are exclusionary. By analyzing precisely how gender bias constitutes a cultural component of economic practice that is normalized in everyday settings, the overarching objective of this study is to assess how positive change toward the broader inclusion of women and other under-represented groups in the digital media and software industry may be accomplished. Methods to be utilized include participant observation and semi-structured interviews with digital media developers in San Francisco, where several hundred digital media firms are located.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Working Lives and Spatial Practices of Digital Media Developers",
"1519181","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Religion and the Professional Middle Class in Contemporary China","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2015","5/18/2015","Mary Ellen Konieczny","IN","University of Notre Dame","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$11,983.00 ","Megan Rogers","mkoniecz@nd.edu","940 Grace Hall","NOTRE DAME","IN","940 Grace Hall, NOTRE DAME, IN","465565708","5746317432","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","This project examines how one portion of the Chinese population?the growing professional middle class?is engaging with religious practice and asks how they are using these practices to make sense of their success and place in their country and global society. Why is a rapidly modernizing society that underwent forced secularization now awash with religious activity even in the face of continued governmental control of religion? What does this growth of religion actually look like in people's everyday lives, and how do they use these religious practices, beliefs, and identities to make meaning and build community? Drawing on critiques of the<br/>standard sociological theories of religion and ways of conceptualizing and measuring of religion, this project uses the lens of religious practice to analyze distinctively Chinese ways of practicing religion that transcend established religious lines.<br/><br/>The data collection involves community observations and interviews with individuals from the following communities: self-identified Buddhists, Protestants, Catholics, Muslims, and the non-religious in a prefecture-level city on China's eastern seaboard. Using a combination of qualitative methods (ethnography, in-depth interviews, and photo elicitation interviews), this project will answer the research questions by examining the religious practices of the cosmopolitan sector of Chinese society while also analyzing distinctively Chinese ways of practicing religion that transcend established religious lines. The research also will examine key tensions in the lives of this population and the ways that they use religion to address practical concerns, make meaning, and pursue happiness in the context of rapid social, cultural, and economic change. This project will further our knowledge of both contemporary Chinese society and the role of lived religion among the global middle class.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Religion and the Professional Middle Class in Contemporary China",
"1650781","A Longitudinal Comparison of Recovery Responses to Human-Produced Disasters","BCS","CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY","8/1/2016","8/4/2016","Eric Jones","TX","University of Texas Health Science Center Houston","Standard Grant","Jeffrey Mantz","7/31/2017","$35,183.00 ","Arthur Murphy","Eric.C.Jones@uth.tmc.edu","7000 FANNIN ST","HOUSTON","TX","7000 FANNIN ST, HOUSTON, TX","770305400","7135003999","SBE","1390","1390, 7916, 9178, 9179","$0.00 ","This project explores the factors that contribute to and inhibit long-term psychological recovery rates from human-produced disasters. Preliminary data that this research team has gathered on stress symptoms between two different sets of recovering disaster victims contradict widely held assumptions about variation in responses to extreme events. This project provides researchers with the opportunity to assess disaster management longitudinally. The intellectual merit of the project is in the improved scientific understanding of the variance between recovery and psychological wellbeing rates in different extreme settings, and the sociocultural responses to human-made disasters. The broader impacts of the project are that it will strengthen collaboration among research communities internationally, provide professional development opportunities at the research site, broaden the participation of underrepresented groups in the sciences, and train graduate students in methods of scientifically-grounded and empirical data collection. Project findings will also be presented to non-academic audiences, improving efforts to communicate science to the public. Additionally, the brings longitudinal insights on impact and recovery to a broader audience of political scientists, sociologists, psychologists, public health practitioners, and emergency managers interested in governance, hazards and vulnerability, social organization, and community recovery. This award is made under NSF's EAGER funding mechanism, which supports Early-concept Grants for Exploratory Research.<br/><br/>Very little comparative longitudinal research has been done on human-caused or technological disasters. This project will produce comparable data for two technological disasters caused by human negligence among geographically and culturally similar populations that have engaged to varying degrees in calls for righting the wrongs of the events. Specifically, the research team will do a second round of interviews with 150-200 people along the Sonora River where the Buenavista mine copper sulfate spill occurred in August, 2014. Two rounds of interviews within the first two years already exist for the 2009 ABC day care fire in Hermosillo on how people were doing after the fire. Analysis of data will involve parametric and non-parametric tests of differences between the two sites in terms of levels of wellbeing, in addition to comparisons between the sites in terms of the associations of network composition variables with levels of wellbeing in both sites. Results on social responses and wellbeing will be relevant to emergency management, political science, anthropology, sociology, psychology, and public health.","crimson_battery","A Longitudinal Comparison of Recovery Responses to Human-Produced Disasters",
"1519154","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Tailoring Post-9/11 Military Credentials for Access to Different Domains of Civilian Life","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/23/2015","Steven Lukes","NY","New York University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$5,991.00 ","Alexis Pang","sl53@nyu.edu","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S","NEW YORK","NY","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S, NEW YORK, NY","100121019","2129982121","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","American society is experiencing an influx of ""post-9/11"" military veterans returning from war. Sociologists understand civilian reentry as the process of leaving the military and integrating into civilian institutions and communities. On the surface, popular rhetoric to support the troops and initiatives like Joining Forces suggest that veterans enjoy strong institutional and public support. Nevertheless, research suggests that many veterans still struggle to connect with employment, housing, and other institutional resources. Although there is little academic research on veterans' social reintegration, reports from national surveys, war memoirs, journalists, and others reveal perceptions of a military-civilian gap. Historically, scholars have struggled to identify the mechanisms underlying differences between veterans and civilians in employment, educational attainment, and other outcomes. This project examines the disjuncture between proclaimed and experienced support for veterans by focusing on one critical aspect of civilian reentry: the exchange of military-related information when veterans present themselves as candidates for institutional and social opportunities. <br/><br/>A survey experiment simulates gatekeeping scenarios to test how a national sample of the American public normatively evaluates veteran candidates with different military backgrounds. Interviews and document analysis capture how 50 post-9/11 veterans recount navigating these normative contours; specifically, how they translate and tailor their military information when seeking work, applying for college, pursuing romantic interests, and meeting the families of potential life partners. This study builds on previous research by offering data on how veterans and gatekeepers shape gatekeeping outcomes during civilian reentry. Findings can inform veterans on how disclosing different aspects of one's military service may influence the success of their efforts and how other veterans have navigated these challenges. Policymakers and programmers working on reintegration initiatives will gain clarification in what contributes to veteran candidates' desirability (or stigmatization) and how veterans are selecting and attempting opportunities after returning from war, and the research contributes to more general social science interest in impression management in interaction.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Tailoring Post-9/11 Military Credentials for Access to Different Domains of Civilian Life",
"1519088","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Citizenship Obligations in an Age of Rights","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/1/2016","3/1/2016","Kwai Ng","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Patricia White","2/28/2017","$6,522.00 ","Jane Lopez","kwng@ucsd.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1519088<br/>Kwai NG<br/>Jane L. Lopez<br/>University of California-San Diego<br/><br/>What is citizenship? Most media attention around citizenship focuses on rights -- the right to live freely in a country, the right to trial by jury, the right to education, and the right to social security and other social welfare benefits -- and access to those rights by both citizens and non-citizens. But citizenship is also composed of obligations, duties citizens must fulfill to the state in order for citizenship to function. In order to guarantee the right to trial by a jury of one's peers, citizens must serve as jurors; taxes paid by citizens are necessary to fund social welfare programs. In an era of rights-centered rhetoric and policy, this project seeks to re-examine the true substance of citizenship by studying the four legally-enforceable U.S. citizenship obligations -- jury duty, taxation, military service (the draft), and K-12 education -- and evaluating their ongoing role in making citizenship viable. This project will reassert the relevance of citizenship obligations in understanding the true meaning, function, and value of citizenship as a whole. The findings from this project will help explain how citizenship obligations are created, who fulfills them, how they are related to citizenship rights, and their role in sustaining the citizenship regime. Furthermore, this project will improve our understanding the role of citizenship obligations in fostering citizen investment and engagement with the state, clarifying the steps that lawmakers and citizens should take in order to improve the citizenship experience.<br/><br/>Researchers of social movements, politics, national and international phenomena, migration, and the law have found that citizenship -- or ""the right to have rights"" bestowed by a state upon its members (Chief Justice Warren in Trop v. Dulles 1958) -- plays a key role in individual and group sense of belonging and the success of states. But as Chief Justice Warren's definition suggests, citizenship obligations have been greatly overshadowed in academic research and public discourse by citizenship rights, despite their equal significance in sustaining the citizenship relationship. Through a theoretically-grounded, mixed-methods research design, this project will examine the unique characteristics of each legally-enforceable U.S. citizenship obligation -- taxation, military service, jury duty, and education -- and their implications for citizenship theory and the citizenship experience. Utilizing a combination of quantitative, historical, and discourse analysis, this project will seek to answer the following questions, among others: How are citizenship obligations created and who fulfills them? Are citizenship obligations relevant in an age of rights and, if so, how? This project will address a gaping hole in the academic literature on citizenship. While most citizenship scholars have been content to ""understand"" citizenship as a whole from only the perspective of rights, this project will reassert the relevance of citizenship obligations in understanding the true meaning, function, and value of citizenship as a whole. The findings from this project will help explain how citizenship obligations are created, who fulfills them, how they are related to citizenship rights, and their role in sustaining the citizenship regime. This project provides both a theoretical and empirical case to the sociological cannon that will help answer some of the most basic questions about citizenship obligations, highlighting the importance of investigating both sides of the citizenship relationship. Furthermore, this project will improve our understanding the role of citizenship obligations in fostering citizen investment and engagement with the state, clarifying the steps that lawmakers and citizens should take in order to improve the citizenship experience and ensure its viability in the twenty-first century and beyond.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Citizenship Obligations in an Age of Rights",
"1263427","Collaborative Research: Uneven Economic Geographies from Recession to Recovery","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","7/1/2013","6/24/2013","Jamie Goodwin-White","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","12/31/2016","$111,507.00 ","","Goodwin-White@geog.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","SBE","1331, 1352","1331, 1352","$0.00 ","This project is about the impacts of the Great Recession that began with the 2008 financial crisis and its recovery on workers across different metropolitan labor markets in the U.S. as impact of the recession were not uniform across places or people. Some places fared better than others, and some workers fared better than others and this project investigates why. Skill-biased explanations of employment inequality emphasize education as the primary reason that employment outcomes differ among individual workers, but evidence also reveals that the institutional characteristics of metropolitan labor markets influence individual employment and wage outcomes. In particular, institutional explanations of labor market inequality emphasize local social and political factors that influence conditions of work and employment, such as unionization, size of the public sector, and employment policies (e.g., minimum wage laws). This project investigates if and how local economic and institutional factors, such as the economic mix of a regional economy, changes in public sector employment, levels of unionization, and employment policies, shaped differential trajectories of decline, rebound, and resiliency for both places and individual workers during and after the Great Recession. The project will also examine changing patterns of inequality among workers in the same labor markets before and after the recession. In particular, the PIs will examine if greater levels of inequality accompanied recovery and how inequality was influenced by local institutional factors. This analysis will help establish a more comprehensive picture of recovery as well as identify new patterns of inequality that may be emerging between places and among workers. Methodologically, the use of mapping tools, distributional statistical methods, and publicly available census data will help identify how the characteristics of metropolitan labor markets and individual workers influence employment, wages, and wage inequality. The project focuses on these effects especially among more disadvantaged workers, such as African Americans, immigrants, and less-educated individuals.<br/><br/>The research will contribute to the training of students, both at the doctoral level in geography and at the master's level in social work. Concerted efforts will be made to recruit student researchers from underrepresented groups. In addition to research dissemination in geography and social science journals, the project will generate two reports focused on the analysis of employment trends in Chicago and Los Angeles that will be disseminated to local community-based organizations. A project website will be developed to house digital maps, disseminate findings, and make available classroom exercises developed from the research and data. The results of the research will identify local institutional practices and policies that moderate or intensify the negative effects of economic transformation on particular segments of the workforce. These findings are relevant to policy makers and voters engaged in policy debates about economic and employment inequality.<br/><br/>This project is being co-funded with the Sociology program.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Uneven Economic Geographies from Recession to Recovery",
"1460079","IRES: An International, Interdisciplinary Student Research Program in a Biological Hotspot of Southern Ecuador","OISE","IRES","9/1/2015","10/14/2015","Lisette Waits","ID","University of Idaho","Standard Grant","Lina C. Patino","8/31/2018","$245,305.00 ","Jan Boll, Nilsa Bosque-Perez, David Roon, Frank Wilhelm","lwaits@uidaho.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","MOSCOW","ID","Office of Sponsored Programs, MOSCOW, ID","838443020","2088856651","O/D","7727","5977, 7563, 9150","$0.00 ","The NSF-IRES program International, Interdisciplinary Student Research in a Biological Hotspot of Southern Ecuador will provide 8-week field research opportunities for students from the University of Idaho (UI) in collaboration with the Univesidad T�cnica Particular de Loja, Ecuador. Six students (4-5 undergraduate, 1-2 graduate) per year will conduct team-based research at three main field sites in southern Ecuador including dry-forest, Amazonian lowlands and high Andes cloud forest and paramo ecosystems. Training will emphasize cross-disciplinary synthesis, sensitivity to varying cultural/political norms, and the flexibility to conduct rigorous scientific investigations in landscapes with uniquely varied research challenges. Participating students from the UI will work in interdisciplinary teams of 2-3 students addressing individual research questions within the scope of a broad unifying topic focused around our umbrella theme of biodiversity conservation. Six UTPL faculty with expertise in conservation biology, conservation genetics, mammalian ecology, limnology, insect ecology and phylogenetics, plant ecology and phylogenetics, and rural sociology will serve as local project mentors. <br/><br/>Ecuadorian students from UTPL will collaborate with UI student team members to develop and implement research projects. UI faculty with expertise in landscape and organismal ecology, conservation biology, population ecology, conservation genetics, hydrology, limnology, watershed management, rural sociology, natural resource policy, and entomology will serve as co-mentors and collaborators. Educational activities will include a spring planning and proposal development course that emphasizes program logistics, the ecology, natural history and human dimensions (sustainable development, culture, indigenous issues) of southern Ecuador, interdisciplinary research methods, and the development of summer research proposals. After an 8-week field season collecting data in Ecuador, students will take a fall course designed to facilitate data analysis and manuscript preparation, in a continued interdisciplinary setting, and culminating in a final oral presentation and project report. Participating students will gain experience with a rich array of cultures, thus building a sophisticated, externalized perspective on science. Ultimately, graduates of this program should excel at addressing the critical, multi-facetted conservation dilemmas that face us as global citizens.","aquamarine_battery","IRES: An International, Interdisciplinary Student Research Program in a Biological Hotspot of Southern Ecuador",
"1624169","RCN-UBE-Incubator: Environments and Metrics in Biology Education and Research","DBI","UBE - Undergraduate Biology Ed, HIST BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIV, IUSE","9/1/2016","7/26/2016","Jana Marcette","MO","Harris Stowe State College","Standard Grant","Christopher Meyer","8/31/2017","$49,997.00 ","Uwe Hilgert, Richard Harvey, Gary McDowell","marcettj@hssu.edu","3026 Laclede Avenue","Saint Louis","MO","3026 Laclede Avenue, Saint Louis, MO","631032136","3143403544","BIO","037Y, 1594, 1998","1664, 9178, 9150","$0.00 ","The Environments and Metrics in Biology Education and Research (EMBER) RCN-UBE Incubator Project seeks to generate innovative measures to increase retention and diversity in the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) workforce by capitalizing on the unique insights and collaboration of interested educators from a multitude of relevant disciplines including biology, education, psychology and sociology. Addressing STEM student retention is crucial to avoid the projected deficit in qualified workers required for a growing STEM-based economy. The US population and workforce are becoming increasingly diverse yet a lack of diversity in STEM fields is stubbornly persistent. Nationwide efforts to boost education in STEM and address the projected deficits in the STEM workforce have had mixed results. Like other STEM disciplines, approximately half of undergraduate students that enter biology majors complete their degrees. <br/><br/>Addressing retention and diversity will require innovative solutions that capitalize on the contributions from a variety of fields including psychology, sociology, education and STEM. The broader impacts of the project lie in forming a network that brings together experts from these fields to study the environment of the current biology STEM pipeline, and establish and assess benchmarks for inclusivity at critical points along this career trajectory. The activities of the EMBER Research Coordination Network include organizing and building a collaborating network of experts by hosting a workshop, developing a website, publishing insights generated in the workshop session, and drafting a full Research Coordination Network-Undergraduate Biology Education proposal. The focus of the project will be on retention in biology degree programs but new metrics and paradigms developed by EMBER collaborators are expected to be broadly applicable to other STEM disciplines and to STEM-based businesses.<br/><br/>This project is being jointly funded by the Directorate for Biological Sciences and the Directorate for Education and Human Resources (EHR), Division of Undergraduate Education as part of their efforts to address the challenges posed in Vision and Change in Undergraduate Biology Education: A Call to Action http://visionandchange/finalreport/. This project is also co-funded by the Division of Human Resources Development (HBCU UP) in the EHR directorate.","azure_battery","RCN-UBE-Incubator: Environments and Metrics in Biology Education and Research",
"1613072","Iterative testing procedures and high-dimensional scaling limits of extremal random structures","DMS","STATISTICS","8/1/2016","7/25/2016","Andrew Nobel","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Continuing grant","Keith Crank","7/31/2019","$124,657.00 ","Sreekalyani Bhamidi","nobel@email.unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","Over the past ten years, networks and network models have seen increasing use and importance in a variety of fields, including economics, neuroscience, genomics, and biomedicine. Work in these fields has driven an increase in statistical research concerning modeling of, and inference about, complex networks. The PIs will pursue several new directions in statistical network research, a key theme being the application and extension of recent work in probability on the theory of complex, random and geometric networks. In particular, the PIs will develop iterative testing methods to identify relational changes in large data sets, and to enhance the power of genomic studies that link genetic variation to global changes in gene expression. They will extend existing probabilistic techniques to provide theoretical support for the iterative testing procedure, and to address broader statistical questions concerning inference about complex associations between the features of large, high dimensional data sets. Methodological development and application will be carried out in cooperation with researchers in genomics, biomedicine, and sociology at UNC, with whom the PI and co-PI have long standing collaborations. <br/><br/><br/>Motivated in large part by the increasing use and importance of networks in a variety of fields, there has been a great deal of work in the statistics community devoted to the problem of testing and estimating associations between variables in high dimensional data sets. Concurrent with this statistical activity, recent developments in the fields of probabilistic combinatorics have significantly advanced our understanding of discrete random structures that capture the association of high-dimensional objects. The PIs will bring a number of these probabilistic tools to bear on association based inference problems. In particular, the PIs will develop and implement an iterative testing procedure that identifies self-associated sets of vertices in a graph, and self-associated sets of variables in a high dimensional data set. Within the framework of the iterative testing procedure they will develop computationally efficient methods for several applied problems: mining of block correlation differences in two sample studies, and identifying groups of mutually correlated variables in studies where each sample is assessed with two or more measurement platforms. As a special case of the latter problem, they will develop tools to enhance the power of genomic studies that link local genetic variation to global changes in gene expression. A second component of the proposed research is to adapt and extend existing techniques in probabilistic combinatorics to provide supporting theory for the iterative testing procedure, and to address broader statistical questions concerning the testing and estimation of correlations. Development and application of the methods will be carried out in cooperation with researchers in genomics, biomedicine, and sociology at UNC, with whom the PI and co-PI have long standing collaborations.","salmon_atom","Iterative testing procedures and high-dimensional scaling limits of extremal random structures",
"1636976","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Challenging Autism: The Neurodiversity and Alternative Biomedical Movements","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2016","7/8/2016","Peter Conrad","MA","Brandeis University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,252.00 ","Catherine Tan","conrad@brandeis.edu","415 SOUTH ST MAILSTOP 116","WALTHAM","MA","415 SOUTH ST MAILSTOP 116, WALTHAM, MA","24532728","7817362121","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1636976<br/>Peter Conrad<br/>Catherine Tan<br/>Brandeis University<br/><br/>Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) is generally characterized as a developmental disability of unknown cause (potentially a combination of environmental, biological, and genetic risks) and with no sure cure or treatment. ASD is a divisive issue that has inspired the emergence of different movement groups of which the two major ones are the neurodiversity and alternative biomedical movements. Neurodiversity and alternative biomedical movement groups both challenge how researchers and medical professionals think about and approach ASD. The neurodiversity movement is primarily comprised of autistic self-advocating adults who argue that ASD is a brain difference, as opposed to disorder. Framing ASD as a social and cultural issue, neurodiversity advocates demand recognition, acceptance, and accommodation. The alternative biomedical movement, however, is dominated by parents of children with ASD. Alternative biomedical advocates contend that the condition is an immunological disorder triggered by environmental toxins, from which children can be recovered through various combinations of dietary changes, supplements, and alternative therapies (e.g., hyperbaric oxygen therapy, helminths, and ionic detoxification foot baths). This research studies neurodiversity and alternative biomedical advocates, to better understand how experiences with ASD influence health social movement participation, shape beliefs about ASD, and orient challenges against the dominant paradigm. This study seeks to understand how advocates of these two groups experience, think about, and subsequently, approach ASD. The project will also offer insights into issues important to the improvement of social and healthcare services for autistic adults (such as access to safe housing, employment, and support services), and to understanding immunization non-participation and alternative medicine use in ASD-related care.<br/><br/>This study focuses on three areas of inquiry: experiences with a medicalized condition, knowledge and expertise, and health social movements. Extant sociological literature on experience of illness often privileges the perspectives of ""sick"" or suffering individuals, but have under-explored (i) caretakers with highly involved and indefinite commitments to ""sick"" individuals and (ii) diagnosed individuals who reject their medicalized statuses. Comparing neurodiversity and alternative biomedical advocates' pluralistic experiences with ASD enables deeper understanding of movement identification, ASD beliefs, and movement goals. Furthermore, the researchers will examine the processes through which movement groups and advocates develop their own specialized knowledge on ASD. This knowledge can compete with and challenge mainstream paradigms, therefore the researchers will identify the strategies advocates employ to expand and preserve neurodiversity and alternative biomedical fields of expertise. The study implements qualitative methods that will include observations of neurodiversity and alternative biomedical events, in-depth interviews with advocates, and textual analysis of materials issued by and written about the movement groups. These research methodologies aim to address the following questions: How do advocates come to participate in and adopt movement agendas? How do movement advocates frame their opposition against mainstream scientists and medical professionals? And, within their movement groups, how do advocates generate knowledge about ASD?","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Challenging Autism: The Neurodiversity and Alternative Biomedical Movements",
"1552105","Collaborative Research: Uneven Economic Geographies from Recession to Recovery","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","6/1/2015","8/3/2015","Virginia Parks","CA","Occidental College","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","12/31/2016","$19,504.00 ","","vparks@oxy.edu","1600 Campus Road","Los Angeles","CA","1600 Campus Road, Los Angeles, CA","900413314","3232591414","SBE","1331, 1352","1331, 1352","$0.00 ","This project is about the impacts of the Great Recession that began with the 2008 financial crisis and its recovery on workers across different metropolitan labor markets in the U.S. as impact of the recession were not uniform across places or people. Some places fared better than others, and some workers fared better than others and this project investigates why. Skill-biased explanations of employment inequality emphasize education as the primary reason that employment outcomes differ among individual workers, but evidence also reveals that the institutional characteristics of metropolitan labor markets influence individual employment and wage outcomes. In particular, institutional explanations of labor market inequality emphasize local social and political factors that influence conditions of work and employment, such as unionization, size of the public sector, and employment policies (e.g., minimum wage laws). This project investigates if and how local economic and institutional factors, such as the economic mix of a regional economy, changes in public sector employment, levels of unionization, and employment policies, shaped differential trajectories of decline, rebound, and resiliency for both places and individual workers during and after the Great Recession. The project will also examine changing patterns of inequality among workers in the same labor markets before and after the recession. In particular, the PIs will examine if greater levels of inequality accompanied recovery and how inequality was influenced by local institutional factors. This analysis will help establish a more comprehensive picture of recovery as well as identify new patterns of inequality that may be emerging between places and among workers. Methodologically, the use of mapping tools, distributional statistical methods, and publicly available census data will help identify how the characteristics of metropolitan labor markets and individual workers influence employment, wages, and wage inequality. The project focuses on these effects especially among more disadvantaged workers, such as African Americans, immigrants, and less-educated individuals.<br/><br/>The research will contribute to the training of students, both at the doctoral level in geography and at the master's level in social work. Concerted efforts will be made to recruit student researchers from underrepresented groups. In addition to research dissemination in geography and social science journals, the project will generate two reports focused on the analysis of employment trends in Chicago and Los Angeles that will be disseminated to local community-based organizations. A project website will be developed to house digital maps, disseminate findings, and make available classroom exercises developed from the research and data. The results of the research will identify local institutional practices and policies that moderate or intensify the negative effects of economic transformation on particular segments of the workforce. These findings are relevant to policy makers and voters engaged in policy debates about economic and employment inequality.<br/><br/>This project is being co-funded with the Sociology program.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Uneven Economic Geographies from Recession to Recovery",
"1539872","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Title IX in American Universities","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/30/2015","Julia Adams","CT","Yale University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$11,998.00 ","Celene Reynolds","julia.adams@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Over 100 colleges and universities are currently under investigation by the U.S. Department of Education for violating Title IX on the allegation that they have mishandled sexual harassment and assault. Yet until recently, sexual harassment and assault were largely absent from Title IX compliance programs, which instead focused on gender equity in athletics. This is a striking change with major implications for schools, especially universities. Why did the implementation of Title IX shift from an emphasis on sports to sexual harassment? By assessing this question, this project will illuminate the changing university as well as the complex relationship among social, political, and legal structures. We develop a three-step explanation: first, we demonstrate how the law has been applied over time and in distinctive organizational settings; next, we assess how social movements, the professions, and local organizational factors contributed to the change in Title IX's implementation in universities; finally, we examine the political dynamics of legal implementation as they unfold among and within multiple organizations. <br/><br/>We conduct a comparative historical analysis of three different kinds of data: 1) a unique database that I have constructed of all postsecondary-level Title IX complaints filed with the Office of Civil Rights from 1994 to 2014; 2) all lawsuits filed under Title IX against postsecondary institutions from 1972 to 2014 with Notes of Decision; and 3) case studies that examine the law's contested application in four universities. This research will make theoretical and empirical contributions to sociological knowledge of law, organizations, gender, and social policy.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Title IX in American Universities",
"1602586","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Academic Performance,Gender and Hiring","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","5/3/2016","Brian Powell","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","4/30/2017","$11,842.00 ","Natasha Quadlin","Powell@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Academic Performance, Gender, and Hiring<br/><br/>Research consistently shows that differences in levels of education--e.g., a high school diploma<br/>versus a Bachelor's degree--are associated with different labor market outcomes, including earnings and occupational prestige. Scholars do not yet understand whether differences in academic performance among those with Bachelor's degrees also contribute to employment inequalities. This question is an important consideration not only because achievement is stratified within the student population, but also because students differ in the extent to which they invest time and effort in their academic performance. Women, in particular, typically have higher grades and spend more time on academic activities than men, but it is unclear whether these efforts pay off at the point of hiring. Accordingly, this project addresses three key questions: Are there returns to academic performance in the labor market? If so, what are they? And, do these returns vary for men and women? This research can help us understand persistent inequalities between women and men.<br/><br/>The research will conduct original, experimental data collected in two related studies to answer these questions. Study 1 is an online audit experiment, also known as a field experiment or correspondence study. Matched pairs of job applications will be sent to approximately 1,250 entry-level employers in five metropolitan areas in the U.S. Applicants' college GPA, gender, and major will be experimentally manipulated to establish their causal effects on several labor market outcomes, including callback rate and potential starting salary. Study 2 is an online survey experiment designed to analyze the mechanisms behind the patterns observed in Study 1. A pool of respondents who are hiring decision-makers at U.S. firms will evaluate the same resumes presented in Study 1 and provide feedback about applicants and their credentials. Taken together, these studies will help explain how and why employers evaluate academic performance for men and women, while potentially uncovering important inequalities in the transition from college to work. This research contributes to sociological research on persistent inequalities as well as has practical implications for human resource and other managers interested in promoting diversity and workplace fairness.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Academic Performance,Gender and Hiring",
"1359240","REU Site: Studies in Social Inequality and Social Vulnerability","SMA","RSCH EXPER FOR UNDERGRAD SITES","4/15/2014","4/15/2014","Mark Fossett","TX","Texas A&M University Main Campus","Standard Grant","Josie S. Welkom","3/31/2017","$269,997.00 ","Walter Peacock","m-fossett@tamu.edu","400 Harvey Mitchell Pkwy South","College Station","TX","400 Harvey Mitchell Pkwy South, College Station, TX","778454375","9798626777","SBE","1139","9250","$0.00 ","This Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites program at Texas A & M University aims to attract undergraduates to careers in social science research and to increase the participation of talented individuals from under-represented groups (e.g., African Americans and Latinos). The Departments of Sociology (SOCI) and Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning (LAUP) collaborate to host this REU Site that brings undergraduate students majoring in sociology, planning, and related disciplines to participate in an eight-week Summer Institute focusing on Studies of Inequality and Social Vulnerability. The primary student activities are participating in a faculty-supervised research project leading to a research paper and presentation at a professional conference, while upporting activities include a seminar providing grounding in theory, data, and methods relevant for research projects; two research field trips; and workshops on opportunities for graduate education and research careers. The site theme ""Studies of Social Inequality and Social Vulnerability"" reflects the expertise of the researcher mentors from SOCI & LAUP and is proven effective in attracting applications from African American and Latino students. The eight research mentors have strong research and mentoring credentials and prior experience in overseeing successful NSF REU and SBE programs. <br/><br/>Students are incorporated into the ongoing research programs of the mentors and assigned individual research projects. Selected examples include: documenting disparities in socioeconomic, residential, and health outcomes by race and poverty-income status; assessing differential vulnerability of social groups to natural and technical hazards; assessing how hazards (e.g., hurricanes and floods) differentially impact ethnic minority, low income, and other vulnerable populations; investigating correlates, causes, and consequences of residential segregation by race and income; conducting historical case studies of the evolution of residential segregation over time in selected cities; and assessing variation in recovery from the impact of hazards. Diversity goals will be served by practices used in prior successful REU Sites. These include working closely with faculty at minority serving universities that have limited STEM student research opportunities to identify promising, motivated students with interests in graduate education and research careers. The proposed REU Site draws on the faculty expertise and institutional resources of two nationally prominent doctoral departments to provide students intensive research experiences based on participating in ongoing research projects, some funded by NSF, relating to social inequality and social vulnerability. Students undertake individual projects directed by faculty mentors and designed to be feasible over the summer institute and within the capabilities of advanced undergraduates. Although the mmediate contributions of student projects to science could be modest, the larger intellectual merit is enhancing student research capabilities, understanding of and interest in research, and odds of going on to graduate education and research careers.","crimson_battery","REU Site: Studies in Social Inequality and Social Vulnerability",
"1520074","IBSS: The Impact of Foreign Languages on Problem Solving: An Interdisciplinary Study of Language and Society","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","8/15/2015","8/6/2015","Boaz Keysar","IL","University of Chicago","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","7/31/2020","$1,000,000.00 ","James Evans, Ali Hortacsu, John Oliver","boaz@uchicago.edu","5801 South Ellis Avenue","Chicago","IL","5801 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, IL","606375418","7737028669","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","Communication in a foreign language has been shown to strongly affect decision making. As communication and transportation technologies have increasingly ""globalized"" the world, more people communicate with one another using languages other than their native language, whether in business, politics, or casually. This interdisciplinary research project will use a variety of methods to evaluate the consequences of using a foreign language on individuals and society in a range of different domains. The investigators will assess the effects of foreign languages on strategic risk taking, auction market efficiency, public opinion surveys, creative problem solving, scientific discovery, invention, and entrepreneurship. The project will enhance basic understanding of the ways that language changes thought and behavior by providing new insights into the pervasive impact of language on intellectual activity, including mechanisms of mind, brain, and social institutions. As such, the project will make intellectual contributions across a range of the disciplines, including psychology, economics, political science, and sociology. The project also will have far-reaching social implications. For example, given that about one-half of the internal medicine residents in U.S. hospitals are foreign-born, health-care organizations can more precisely anticipate risk-taking trends among physicians depending on whether or not they use a foreign language professionally. Intelligence communities, diplomats, and businesses will be able to apply project findings strategically in negotiation and problem solving situations with foreign entities. The project also will help address central societal issues by providing new perspectives with which to assess the value of immigration and the innovation that accompanies it. With respect to education, the project will provide tools to increase the effectiveness of education and training for bilingual immigrant students and to better anticipate the benefits of bilingual education on performance in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.<br/><br/>This project will focus on the ways through which language changes thought and behavior. Theories of individual and institutional behavior tend to be based strictly within disciplines and typically ignore the role of language. This project will transform these approaches by broaching the divide between individual decision makers and institutional behavior. The investigators will employ a novel interdisciplinary approach that involves collaboration among researchers from psychology, economics, sociology, and political science. They will use experimental methods and surveys to collect behavioral, physiological, and brain activity measures, comparing tasks performed in native and foreign languages. They also will engage in a large-scale, computational investigation of millions of publications and patents to evaluate the consequences of using a foreign language on innovations in science and business. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: The Impact of Foreign Languages on Problem Solving: An Interdisciplinary Study of Language and Society",
"1632469","Organism, Evolution, and the Social Environment in American Philosophy","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","8/15/2016","7/18/2016","Trevor Pearce","NC","University of North Carolina at Charlotte","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","7/31/2017","$153,327.00 ","","tpearce6@uncc.edu","9201 University City Boulevard","CHARLOTTE","NC","9201 University City Boulevard, CHARLOTTE, NC","282230001","7046871888","SBE","7603","1353","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This project is to support research for a book on the American pragmatists and late-nineteenth-century biology. The researcher is building an argument to show that the philosophical tradition of pragmatism owes an enormous debt to specific biological debates in the late 1800s, especially those concerning the role of the environment in development and evolution. He is drawing from both published writings from the period as well as extensive archival evidence to make his case. The main potential benefit to society of this project is to change the conversation about the relationship between biology and the social world. The current conversation about this relationship is dominated by socio-biologists and evolutionary psychologists, whose work has been roundly criticized by philosophers of science. Pragmatism provides an alternative model: Although we are, fundamentally, organisms modifying and being modified by our environments, in the contexts of science, ethics, and education, the environments that matter are social, and thus it is social science rather than biology that bears directly on these contexts.<br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>This research project will demonstrate that we cannot fully understand pragmatism and its influence without understanding its connection to biology. For example, the pragmatists used the dichotomy of ""organism and environment"" as an abstract framing device, applying it in logic, ethics, and even aesthetics. This organism-environment framework brought together biology, philosophy, and the social sciences, resulting in pioneering work such as that of W.E.B. Du Bois, The Philadelphia Negro (1899), which argued that many of the problems of the black community in Philadelphia were due to their social environment. The pragmatist philosophers were influential across a range of fields, from education to sociology. William James, after opening the first United States laboratory devoted to the teaching of psychology at Harvard, published one of the discipline's most influential textbooks; John Dewey, an outspoken champion of progressive education, founded what is now known as the Laboratory School at the University of Chicago; George Herbert Mead, one of the fathers of social psychology, motivated the sociological approach of symbolic interactionism. By revealing its roots in nineteenth-century biology, this project promises to transform our understanding of American pragmatism, and to enhance our understanding of the critical role of social environments.","crimson_battery","Organism, Evolution, and the Social Environment in American Philosophy",
"1636924","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Role of Mental Health Labels in Stigma and Status Processes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2016","7/8/2016","Stephen Benard","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,981.00 ","Bianca Manago","sbenard@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1636924<br/>Stephen Benard<br/>Bianca Manago<br/>Indiana University<br/><br/>Past research has documented the serious stigma consequences of mental health labels. However, research has not examined how individuals are viewed when a mental health label is not given to explain deviant behavior; or compared how these consequences differ by the legitimacy of who provides the label (e.g., physician vs. layperson). A systematic investigation of labeling: (1) provides a better understanding of how to intervene in the stigma and status loss processes (e.g., targeting descriptions of behavior vs. mental illness labels in anti-stigma campaigns); (2) may inform physicians' decisions regarding diagnosing patients with mental illness; and (3) influences individuals' decisions regarding if, when, and how to disclose their own mental illnesses. To ensure this information is disseminated to individuals with mental illnesses and organizations dedicated to reducing mental illness stigma, the co-PI is collaborating with Bring Change 2 Mind - a national anti-stigma campaign. Finally, the proposed project will educate undergraduate research assistants by training them in social science research methodology, and teaching them the sociological implications of mental health issues.<br/><br/>This project investigates how the presence, source, and characteristics of mental illness labels affect the desired social distance from (stigmatization), and perceived competence of (status) an individual. Specifically, the research asks: (1) When a mental health label is given to explain an individual's deviant behavior, how does that change others' evaluations of that person? (2) Does the legitimacy of the label's source (e.g., physician vs. layperson) change the label's impact? (3) How do the features of the mental illness affect this process? To examine these processes, the co-PI will complete a national survey experiment of adults in the United States. Following methods used in the 1996, 2002, and 2006 General Social Surveys, respondents will read a vignette that describes a person who is experiencing symptoms of a mental illness. The vignettes are identical except the presence/absence and source of a mental health label differ. To study the effect of uncertainty on stigma, the research compares the effects of providing a specific diagnosis (e.g., schizophrenia), to no diagnostic information, and finally, to an explicit non-diagnosis (e.g., John does not have a mental illness). To examine the effect of legitimacy, three sources of labels are considered: expert others (e.g., physician), non-expert others (e.g., friend or layperson), and the survey respondents themselves. Finally, to account for features of mental illness known to cause high levels of stigma, the co-PI will conduct four replications of this study, examining mental illnesses that: induce fear, disrupt social interaction, both, or neither. The researchers predict that when mental health labels are given to explain individual's deviant behavior, stigma will be reduced because the individual will not be held responsible for his/her behavior. They also predict that because of the physicians? perceived legitimacy, mental health labels that are applied by medical professionals, will be more effective at reducing stigma than labels that are applied by lay persons. Results will inform efforts to reduce the stigmatization and status loss of individuals with mental illness.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Role of Mental Health Labels in Stigma and Status Processes",
"1519686","IBSS: The Levels and Timing of Family and School Influences on Children's Development","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","9/1/2015","1/11/2016","Elizabeth Gershoff","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","8/31/2020","$999,956.00 ","Robert Crosnoe, Elizabeth Gershoff","liz.gershoff@austin.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","This interdisciplinary research project will identify the optimal levels and timing of key aspects of the two most important contexts in children's lives -- their families and their schools -- for the development of children from birth through their transition to adulthood. The project will draw on and contribute new fundamental knowledge that bridges a broad range of fields, including developmental psychology, sociology, demography, sociology of education, educational psychology, and economics. The project will yield new insights regarding developmental transitions precipitate continuity or discontinuity in development across the early life course, with equal emphasis placed on children who experience continuity in development as on children who experience discontinuity. By enhancing basic understanding of the complex interactions among children, their families, their schools, and other contextual factors, the project will inform the design of interventions to address problems experienced by some children and more effectively guide the use of public dollars toward the most efficient times for interventions.<br/><br/>The investigators will focus on three ways of characterizing the influence of family and school contexts on child and youth development: sensitive periods, tipping points, and transitions. Sensitive periods refer to the times in development that are most susceptible to contextual influence and are most effective for predicting future functioning. Tipping points are the levels at which a contextual influence affects accelerated or diminishing returns. Transitions are major changes in a context that can affect changes in the individual. The investigators will analyze data from six national longitudinal datasets that cover multiple stages of the early life course as well as three experimental datasets that will permit them to draw stronger conclusions about causal relationships. The team will implement cutting-edge statistical methods that adhere to the best practices across disciplines. Throughout the project, the investigators will use the best available measurements to examine each part of the conceptual model, replicate models across datasets and cohorts as a means of increasing confidence in results, leverage state-of-the-art methods to capture the dynamic nature of individual development, and consider alternative explanations and specifications in order to increase confidence in causal inferences. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: The Levels and Timing of Family and School Influences on Children's Development",
"1560078","REU Site: Effects of political upheaval and ethnic discord on the mental health of a population","SMA","RSCH EXPER FOR UNDERGRAD SITES, COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH","5/1/2016","4/28/2016","Nathan Tintle","IA","Dordt College","Standard Grant","Josie S. Welkom","4/30/2019","$355,298.00 ","","nathan.tintle@dordt.edu","498 4th Avenue NE","Sioux Center","IA","498 4th Avenue NE, Sioux Center, IA","512501606","7127226264","SBE","1139, 7298","5998, 9150, 9250","$0.00 ","This project is funded from the Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites program in the SBE Directorate, with joint support and funding from the NSF Office of International Science and Engineering (OISE). As an REU Site with international activities, it has both scientific and societal benefits, and it integrates research and education at multiple levels. The research in this program involves mental health, from a social/behavioral science perspective. Long-term effects of deep-rooted tensions in any country and within any population can include political upheaval, socio-economic disadvantages, ethnic discord and rapid change from one economic system to another; all these factors can have an effect on the rates of mental illness in that population. This REU Site's research program directly impacts a group of 27 undergraduate students over a three year period by broadening students' global awareness and cross-cultural competence through a meaningful, interdisciplinary research experience focusing on a case study for elevated levels of mental illness in a country that has been going through multiple transitions. The case study is Ukraine in post-Soviet era. As part of this REU site, a diverse group of undergraduate students are involved in an ongoing research project exploring the mental health of Ukrainian citizens. In this REU site the PI-team recruits students with an emphasis on the participation of students participants from under-represented groups and institutions where research opportunities are limited. These students will further broaden the impact of their research experience by presenting to high school students and students at their home institutions. <br/><br/>This REU site is focused on a topic of research that is of great interest in the fields of sociology and social psychology. The program incorporates an on-site collaborative research and cultural immersion experience for students in Ukraine, working directly with collaborators at the Kiev International Institute of Sociology (a national research firm in Ukraine). The project provides strong mentorship and development of undergraduate student researchers by an interdisciplinary team of four experienced faculty members, in conjunction with a team of worldwide experts on Ukraine mental health and, and it provides some of the only nationally representative information on mental health risk factors and impacts in Ukraine. The dataset students will be able to use in this project is innovative and unique in the fields of psychology and global health studies. Analyzing these types of global data as a means of training students for future work in psychology and/or health studies means that the work itself has intellectual merit, but that inasmuch as this affects future generations of scholars, it also has long-term impact on the fields. Making American students aware of the cultural biases they bring to the table when analyzing global data is crucial for producing good future science. This project is co-funded by the NSF Office of International Science and Engineering.","crimson_battery","REU Site: Effects of political upheaval and ethnic discord on the mental health of a population",
"1520031","IBSS: The Spread and Impact of Moral Messages: Machine Learning, Network Evolution, and Behavioral Prediction","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","8/15/2015","8/6/2015","Jesse Graham","CA","University of Southern California","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","1/31/2019","$640,267.00 ","Morteza Dehghani, Stephen Vaisey","jesse.graham@usc.edu","University Park","Los Angeles","CA","University Park, Los Angeles, CA","900890001","2137407762","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","In the immediate aftermath of the 2013 Boston Marathon tragedy, hundreds of thousands of prosocial acts were evident on social media, such as reposted links for blood donation sites, information regarding how to get in touch with loved ones, and even offers to provide food and shelter for those in need. Far from isolated acts, these behaviors occurred within social networks, amid shared moral messages of empathy and solidarity. This interdisciplinary research project will examine how people respond to public crises and how moral reactions shape these responses in social networks. The project will contribute new theoretical insights and methodological advances in moral psychology, network sociology, computer science, and other fields. It will enhance understanding of how moral concerns spread through social networks and explore new theoretical frameworks dealing with human moral decision making and group dynamics. These theoretical frameworks will guide the development of artificial intelligence techniques for building descriptive models of morality, and the new methods of sentiment analysis and machine learning will be used to assess theoretical models of moral concerns and social influence in networks. By examining factors influencing the spread of moral messages and participation in prosocial activities, such as charitable giving, the project may help increase the well-being of individuals in emergency situations. The project also will facilitate future inquiry into how the public and persistent nature of social media may provide new ways to understand and forecast social change.<br/><br/>The interdisciplinary science of morality has developed well-validated measures of moral concerns using a number of different approaches, such as Moral Foundations Theory and Schwartz's Values Circumplex. Empirical research in this field usually has assessed moral judgments via questionnaires gathering information well after actions have occurred, however. Sociology has done more to assess behavior as it occurs but has used even more limited measures. Recent innovations in computer science offer new ways to gather information about the structure of moral judgments and large-scale behavior in natural settings as well as the relationships between the two. The investigators will employ these new computer-based methods to examine texts from social media in order to examine the structure of moral concerns and values without relying on preset questionnaires. They will investigate the network dynamics of the spread of moral messages and behaviors, and they will determine how moral content in social media can predict real-world behavior at both individual and societal scales. The investigators will couple machine learning and sentiment analysis techniques with theories about moral cognition and social dynamics. Among questions they will pursue are how well everyday moral judgments (made without researcher prompting) correspond with dominant psychological theories of morality and whether it is possible to model and predict how moral influence can lead to subsequent prosocial or antisocial behavior. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: The Spread and Impact of Moral Messages: Machine Learning, Network Evolution, and Behavioral Prediction",
"1407698","Statistical Methods for Data with Network Structure","DMS","STATISTICS","8/15/2014","8/7/2014","Ji Zhu","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Gabor J. Szekely","7/31/2017","$239,595.00 ","","jizhu@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","MPS","1269","8396, 8609","$0.00 ","Recent advances in computing and measurement technologies have led to an explosion in the amounts of data that are being collected in all areas of application. Much of these data have complex structure, in the form of text, images, video, audio, streaming data, and so on. This project focuses on one important class of problems, viz, data with network structure. Such data are common in diverse engineering and scientific areas, such as biology, computer science, electrical engineering, economics, and sociology. While there has been extensive research on networks (primarily outside the field of Statistics), much of it deals with characterizing and modeling network structures using link information only. The goal of the current research program is to exploit the node features as additional information and develop statistical methods that take into account both link and node information. The research program will make significant contributions in several areas, including Statistics, Biology, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Physics, Psychology, and Sociology. The educational program also includes substantial initiatives that will involve undergraduate and graduate students and expose them to state-of-the-art research in the topics related to the project.<br/><br/>The research aims to develop new statistical methodologies and associated theory that exploit the network structure in the data. Such data are becoming increasingly common in various fields. Specifically, the investigator aims to study three different but related problems: a) link prediction for partially observed networks, which deals with the situation where the network we observe is the true network with observation errors; b) community detection in networks with node features, which combines network link information and additional information on the nodes to improve community detection; c) learning network structures, which deals with the situation where one is interested in identifying the underlying network structure from the data.","salmon_battery","Statistical Methods for Data with Network Structure",
"1603086","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Language Standardization and Modern State-Building","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","5/3/2016","John Lie","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$11,957.00 ","Jeffrey Weng","johnlie@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1603086<br/>John Lie<br/>Jeffrey Weng<br/>University of California, Berkeley<br/><br/>This dissertation project examines how states shape societal language practices. The past few decades have witnessed steady growth in studies of state-formation, particularly research on the state's increasing influence on the lives of ordinary people. This research, and much of sociology in general, has tended to neglect questions of language, in spite of language's foundational role in social life. This project addresses this gap in the literature by asking: What strategies does the state employ to accumulate symbolic power in the realm of language? This project will answer this question by focusing on the case of the Chinese transition from Classical to Modern Chinese, which occurred between the 1910s and 1930s. Previously, Classical Chinese had, much like Latin in Europe, functioned as a supranational language of scholarship and government. Nationalist movements in the latter half of the 19th century spurred the rise of national vernaculars in Korea, Japan, Vietnam, as well as in China. This project's closer examination of the Chinese case will clarify the social theory of language by looking at a state that in three decades accomplished what took place in Europe over several centuries.<br/><br/>To answer the question about how states shape language practices, this dissertation will examine Chinese government archival material located in the United States, Taiwan, and mainland China. The state-formation literature has largely been grounded in Western European cases, in which language change took place over centuries, and tends to treat non-European or postcolonial cases separately, as instances of state-led development or modernization. On the other hand, historical scholarship on China tends to look at changes in language practices as the result of various intellectual ""movements,"" which places intellectuals in an ambivalent relationship with the state. Relying on archival documents, including bureaucratic memoranda, statutes, regulations, meeting minutes, as well as official and personal correspondence, this project seeks to clarify the relationship between language-reforming intellectuals and the state, and thus clarify the state's role in influencing language practices. In so doing, this project will contribute to contemporary debates on the social implications of government policies on language and education, particularly social stratification stemming from unequal access to cultural capital.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Language Standardization and Modern State-Building",
"1602352","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Constrained Choices: Negotiating Work, Family, and Legality","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/25/2016","Jacqueline Hagan","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$10,323.00 ","Holly Straut Eppsteiner","jhagan@unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602352<br/>Jacqueline Hagan<br/>Holly K. Straut Eppsteiner<br/>University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill<br/><br/>A large body of work-family scholarship has evolved to examine how women in the United States make decisions related to work and family. Yet despite the significant presence of female immigrants in the United States, few studies have examined these issues among foreign-born women, particularly the five million women who are undocumented. Undocumented, foreign-born women have lower labor force participation rates than their male counterparts, documented immigrant women, and native-born women. To examine how foreign-born Latina women make decisions about work and family under precarious legal conditions, this doctoral dissertation research examines three questions: 1) How do Latina immigrant women?s legal status and family structure shape their labor force decisions and opportunities within new destination communities in the United States? 2) How do Latina immigrants negotiate motherhood under conditions of precarious legal status? 3) How do women in a new destination community interpret and respond to shifting immigration policies and contexts of reception at federal, state, and local levels? To answer these questions, the co-PI is conducting in-depth interviews with Latina immigrant mothers in central North Carolina and participant observation at community meetings that discuss immigration programs and policies. <br/><br/>This project will contribute to sociological knowledge by bridging the work-family and international migration literatures, developing understanding of women's labor force decisions in new immigrant destinations in the United States, and generating new understanding of gender and international migration policy. These findings will be relevant for scholars of international migration, gender, and work and occupations, as well as policymakers at local, state, and federal levels and immigrant-serving organizations. This research is particularly important at a time when different levels of the U.S. government are seeking to address rights and regulations related to the undocumented population and members of mixed-status families.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Constrained Choices: Negotiating Work, Family, and Legality",
"1602900","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Re-entry organizations and the formally incarcerated","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2016","3/15/2016","Joshua Whitford","NY","Columbia University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$6,678.00 ","Ifeoma Ajunwa","jw2212@columbia.edu","2960 Broadway","NEW YORK","NY","2960 Broadway, NEW YORK, NY","100276902","2128546851","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Mass incarceration is a social problem in the U.S and it creates the concern of how to reintegrate a large number of former prisoners, many of whom have served lengthy sentences, back into society and back into the workforce. Even as the trend towards mass incarceration seems to be reversing, a large population of people remains who exit jails and must attempt to reenter society. Racial minorities represent a significant portion of these returning prisoners, notably African Americans and Latinos. Women also have also been affected by mass incarceration; as a result of the War on Drugs, drug felony convictions (in addition to non-violent property offenses) account for nearly 80 percent of the female inmate population (Women in Prison Project 2006). Furthermore, as scholars have demonstrated, there is a social stigma attached to a criminal record that serves to limit the job opportunities of people returning from prison, even more so, when those individuals are minorities. The successful reintegration of former prisoners is a social good that benefits all of society as it reduces the risk of future crime (and the cost of re-incarceration) and makes for a safer, less unequal society. This study is a qualitative case study of a private re-entry organization in Cleveland Ohio that will help understand the re-entry process.<br/><br/>The proposed research is a qualitative case study of a private reentry organization in Cleveland, Ohio. The major research questions are: 1) Do reentry organizations purposefully broker social and cultural capital for their clientele? How does such brokerage occur? 2) Does the gender of the formerly incarcerated client affect how and what social and cultural capital is brokered by the organization? If so, how? And finally, 3) What is the impact of such brokerage of social and cultural capital on the formerly incarcerated individual who is seeking to reintegrate into society? Data were collected via participant ethnography and interviews with those who make use of the reentry organization and their caseworkers. The intellectual merit of this research is that it will illuminate the sociological processes of reentry of the formerly incarcerated particularly in relation to the brokerage of social and cultural capital by a reentry organization. The findings of the research should have the impact of informing future programming models for future reentry organizations and should also influence policies adopted by the governmental agencies that fund those organizations. The findings of this research will be useful, not only to the reentry field, but also to organizations attempting to reintegrate any stigmatized or marginalized population such as the homeless, the disabled, and refugees. Due to the focus on gender, this research will also be useful for other organizations that work with mixed populations by making them more cognizant of the potential pitfalls of ""gender-neutral"" policies.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Re-entry organizations and the formally incarcerated",
"1602697","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Residential Segregation and Policing Styles","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/15/2016","4/11/2016","Pamela Oliver","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","3/31/2017","$10,025.00 ","Daanika Gordon","oliver@ssc.wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Residential Segregation and Policing Styles<br/><br/>This project explores the processes by which different places, and thus people, come to experience fundamentally different styles of policing. It uses the case of a police department's project of redrawing its district boundaries in the context of a highly segregated Rust Belt city. In contrast to many redistricting efforts that aim to more evenly distribute urban service provision across a jurisdiction, this redistricting intended to concentrate distinct policing problems within the new districts. In so doing, it created more racially homogenous districts and opened the door for divergence in policing practices. This study examines the motivations for and consequences of this reform. It aims to expand our understanding of the varied roles that the police play in projects of social control and service provision by identifying the relational and socially constructed nature of policing priorities across the city. The research has the potential to inform policing and to improve relationships between police and the policed.<br/><br/>The researcher describes the motivations for and consequences of the redistricting through a multi-method design that links the structural context of racial residential segregation to institutional priorities that in turn shape on-the-ground policing. First, the researcher will interview 80 stakeholders involved in or affected by the redistricting in order to identify the networks and interests that structured the redistricting process. Next, the researcher explores the current social organization of police work at the district-level through a year of ethnographic observation of two of the most affected districts. Finally, the researcher describes the intended and unintended consequences of the change through longitudinal analysis of calls for service data, arrest and citation data, crime data, and demographic data. In examining the relationship between residential segregation and policing styles, the researcher identifies the dynamics of policing that not only re-inscribe and maintain segregation boundaries, but reconstitute the nature of segregation by actively creating different kinds of spaces in the city. Thus, this research both contributes to sociology of crime, criminology and community studies but it also contributes to strengthening the relationship between police and the policed. It contributes to understanding how to change the processes that lead to the material and symbolic racial disparities that characterizes these relationships and attends to broader historical and institutional processes as well as mandates at the institutional level.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Residential Segregation and Policing Styles",
"1539804","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Levels and Social Determinants of Nutritional Outcomes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/1/2016","3/1/2016","Michael White","RI","Brown University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","2/28/2017","$11,844.00 ","Yashas Vaidya","Michael_White@Brown.edu","BOX 1929","Providence","RI","BOX 1929, Providence, RI","29129002","4018632777","SBE","1331","1331, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1539804<br/>Michael White<br/>Vaidya Yashas <br/>Brown University<br/><br/>Shifts in diets, physical activity and nutritional outcomes are taking place across the world and are producing poor nutritional outcomes at different extremes. That is, malnutrition and obesity might co-exist within a particular society. This dissertation research will collect body measurements and biomarker data to investigate whether outcomes on the extremes of nutritional spectrum co-exist together and at what units of analysis. Specifically, the investigator will study nutritional and health outcomes and their causes at finer spatial scales and link these individual outcomes to household and background factors that contribute to health. The project takes advantage of existing longitudinal data from the mid-1990s, and ongoing fieldwork that tracks demographic and social changes. This project will also looks at early-life and other influences on health. Thus, prospective and retrospective data will be analyzed to determine early-life factors that might affect current nutritional outcomes. The literature on the nutrition transition has focused on trends at the country or region-level. The dual burden of undernutrition and over nutrition is one feature of this nutritional transition. <br/><br/>Lower and Middle Income (LMICs) countries are now also experiencing spatial and urban transformations, changes in food production, globalization and increasing social inequalities that are pinpointed as factors responsible for shifts in nutritional outcomes and towards increased diet-related Non-communicable Diseases (NCDs). The social, and not necessarily economic, roots of this shift has allowed ""epidemics"" of over nutrition and related chronic NCDs to extend beyond high-income countries to those usually classified as developing countries. The public-health- interpretation often presents a linear theory of this societal transformation. This project takes a sociologically informed view, which recognizes that the social processes driving these shifts are unevenly distributed. It focuses more on the micro processes within the community and household that might result in heterogeneous consequences like extreme nutritional outcomes, now referred to as the dual burden. This dual burden phenomenon allows a possibility where undernutrition and over nutrition might represent different facets of deprivation. The high and continued prevalence of undernutrition at early ages does not negate the possibility of later-life problems of over nutrition. The related burden of NCDs for South Asia, the region being studied, has risen at a rate exceeding global rates. The dual nutritional status burden examined in this project has a potential impact on national healthcare policy, international aid objectives and more. Thus, the detection and determinants of such a dual burden is a concern for both individuals and communities. The study builds on collaboration with an existing research site in Nepal, the Chitwan Valley Family Study (CVFS).","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Levels and Social Determinants of Nutritional Outcomes",
"1544192","Research Initiation: Assessing the Effectiveness of the Professional Formation of Engineering Students at The College of New Jersey","EEC","ENGINEERING EDUCATION","10/1/2015","8/23/2015","Bijan Sepahpour","NJ","The College of New Jersey","Standard Grant","Elliot Douglas","9/30/2017","$149,986.00 ","Diane Bates, Lynn Gazley, Seung-yun Kim","sepahpou@tcnj.edu","P.O. Box 7718","Ewing","NJ","P.O. Box 7718, Ewing, NJ","86280718","6097713255","ENG","1340","110E","$0.00 ","Creating and retaining a robust workforce of highly-skilled engineers is very important for sustaining and improving the United States and global economies, which are increasingly reliant on technical innovation that comes from the field of engineering. Equally important is the development of highly ethical and professional standards within this group of innovative practitioners. The School of Engineering at The College of New Jersey (TCNJ) has formulated a well-balanced liberal arts core integrated with a solid and robust engineering curricular sequence that promises to: (1) improve the retention of engineering students, (2) instill highly ethical and professional standards throughout the four years of the engineering curriculum, and (3) for alumni: a) inspire and strongly encourage them to enhance their engineering knowledge and skills, and b) strive for setting challenging professional goals and achieving them in a timely manner. The architects of this curriculum model have joined forces with faculty from the Department of Sociology to construct the necessary surveying tools and procedures for a comprehensive examination of the degree of effectiveness and the timing of the different interventions and reinforcements built into this promising model. The findings from these evaluations would enable this multi-disciplinary research team to develop a much deeper understanding for further calibration of this curriculum for optimal results. The techniques, surveying tools, and procedures used for conducting this two-year study, along with a summary of the results, will be made available at the national level for potential adoption, examination of similar models, and future collaborations.<br/><br/>The School of Engineering at The College of New Jersey (TCNJ), in close collaboration with faculty from the Department of Sociology, has initiated a research program that assesses the effectiveness of a liberal arts core program combined with a strong vertical engineering professional sequence on the professional formation of engineering students. In this study, the multi-disciplinary team examines the influence of a number of curricular and extracurricular education interventions such as engineering-specific ethics case studies, lessons on professional licensure, interaction with alumni through a formal mentoring program, liberal arts coursework, solving open-ended design problems, internships, and/or undergraduate research experiences. The project consists of two phases: (1) creation of the instruments based on existing measures and development of new measures using qualitative methods in Year 1, and (2) pilot studies in Year 2 that are designed to validate the created instruments. Formative evaluation during these phases allows for modification of measures and timing, and may influence the delivery interventions, based on early analysis of data collected. Summative evaluation provides the validity of the instruments that can then be applied to larger populations. The objective of this initial study is to create and validate instruments that can be used to assess the effectiveness of this promising model. The instruments may be used in future research programs to evaluate the effectiveness of various factors postulated to influence professional development in engineering students. <br/><br/>An additional area of interest focuses on how professional formation is influenced by demographic factors, and how professional formation is related to persistence and post-graduation success. Results of the planned research program provides insight into the connection between professional formation and individual characteristics that have been demonstrated elsewhere to predict persistence and post-graduation success in populations underrepresented due to gender, race/ethnicity, and socioeconomic status. The assessment instruments developed in this study enable professional formation within these cohorts to be better understood, potentially leading to specific interventions that strengthen professional identity for these special populations. Dissemination of the results to the engineering education community will spread the impact of the results nationally.","golden_battery","Research Initiation: Assessing the Effectiveness of the Professional Formation of Engineering Students at The College of New Jersey",
"1458922","A National Data Program for the Social Sciences: The General Social Survey and International Social Survey Programme","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SBE Data Surveys & Studies, GSS-Sociology, SCIENCE & ENGINEERNG INDICATRS, Geography & Spatial Scie-GSS, , , , ","8/15/2015","9/13/2016","Tom Smith","IL","National Opinion Research Center","Continuing grant","Patricia White","7/31/2019","$10,087,854.00 ","Jeremy Freese, Michael Davern, Stephen Morgan, Michael Hout","smitht@norc.uchicago.edu","1155 E. 60th Street","Chicago","IL","1155 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL","606372745","7732566000","SBE","1331, 7238, 7966, 8804, 8809, O533, O534, P350, P383","1331, 1352, 9178, 9251","$0.00 ","Abstract<br/><br/>The National Data Program for the Social Sciences:General Social Survey (NDPSS:GSS) is a social indicators, infrastructure, and data-diffusion program. It has four aims. It gathers data on American society to monitor and explain trends in attitudes, behaviors and attributes at both the aggregate and individual levels. It examines the structure and functioning of society in general and the role of various sub-groups. It provides comparisons between the United States and other nations in order to view American society in comparative perspective and to develop generalizable, cross-national models of human society. It makes high-quality data easily accessible to scholars, students, and others expeditiously and without charge. These aims are accomplished by the regular collection and distribution of the General Social Survey (GSS) and its allied surveys in the International Social Survey Program (ISSP). Since 1972, the GSS and ISSP have been efficiently collected, widely distributed, and extensively analyzed by social scientists and others around the world. Over 25,000 research publications have utilized the GSS/ISSP and they have contributed to every field in the social sciences. For example, they have advanced understanding of cohort effects by examining intergenerational transferences in general and social mobility and studying intergenerational changes in education and knowledge. They have monitored changes in intergroup relations, gender roles, family structure and values, civil liberties and the impact of globalization on national identity. GSS/ISSP data are used in other science fields, such as environmental science, nanotechnology, polar science, computer/information science, and medical science and health. The GSS/ISSP data are also used extensively by government, non-profit organizations, and the mass media. In education, over 2,000 textbooks and teaching manuals utilize the GSS/ISSP and it is used annually by hundreds of thousands students.<br/><br/>The 2016 and 2018 GSSs and the four ISSP rounds (2015 through 2018) will continue the basic NDPSS:GSS mission, balancing replication to measure societal change with both methodological and substantive innovation in both the international and topical modules and follow-up studies. Extensions from past surveys and innovations are planned. They include: 1) extending the linkage of GSS cases to the National Death Index, 2) adding a new hypernetwork sample of employers, 3) making restricted GSS data more available via a secure data enclave, 4) enhancing the usability and functionality of the GSS website, 5) applying the multi-level, multi-source approach to data collection and analysis, 6) adding Internet-related modules on such areas as social-media use and Internet security/privacy issues, and 7) designing an extensive, rigorous experiment comparing an Internet GSS survey to the standard GSS.","crimson_atom","A National Data Program for the Social Sciences: The General Social Survey and International Social Survey Programme",
"1227179","Time-Sharing Experiments for the Social Sciences (TESS): Proposal for Renewed Support, 2012-2015","SES","ECONOMICS, DECISION RISK & MANAGEMENT SCI, SOCIOLOGY, SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE, DATANET, Science of Organizations","9/15/2012","8/30/2016","James Druckman","IL","Northwestern University","Standard Grant","Brian D. Humes","8/31/2017","$2,787,617.00 ","Jeremy Freese, John Dennis, Wendy Mansfield","druckman@northwestern.edu","1801 Maple Ave.","Evanston","IL","1801 Maple Ave., Evanston, IL","602013149","8474913003","SBE","1320, 1321, 1331, 1332, 1333, 1371, 7726, 8031","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","Time-sharing Experiments for the Social Sciences (TESS) is a platform for conducting social science survey experiments fielded on probability-based samples of United States adults. TESS was established in 2001 and capitalizes on economies of scale to enable scholars from across the social sciences, on a competitive basis, to conduct ground-breaking research on issues of broad theoretical and practical importance. The intellectual merit of TESS is closely connected to its successes in enabling social scientists to collect original population-based experimental data in a timely manner; promoting better understanding of fundamental social, political and economic questions; maximizing financial efficiency by pooling expenses for otherwise separate studies; and offering mentoring and educational resources. The new initiatives extend educational aspects of TESS, broaden TESS' population of proposers, enable TESS to contribute to assessing the value of probability sampling for experimental inference, and enhance the review process to ensure the highest quality studies.<br/><br/>The broader impacts of TESS are wide-ranging. Since its inception, TESS has provided more than 400 social, behavioral, and economic researchers with the opportunity to conduct original experiments, testing a broad range of innovative hypotheses. Proposals are solicited on a continuous basis, undergo rigorous peer review, and involve Internet-based data collection with a representative national sample. The project provides an enormous gain in efficiency since costs of sampling, data collection, and data management are distributed across studies. To date, TESS has conducted over 270 population-based experiments, across disciplines including sociology, psychology, political science, communication, economics, judgment and decision making, law, public health, communication, psychiatry, and others.<br/><br/>By providing a common platform for population based experiments, TESS efficiently enables innovative scholars to identify causal dynamics that advance knowledge on topics such as investment behavior, judicial legitimacy, voting turnout, trust, and many more. TESS also facilitates methodological advances to topics such as the effects of web-tracking on survey response and the optimal ways to measure sensitive attitudes.<br/><br/>TESS promotes teaching, training, and learning at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Students regularly submit proposals, many of which are funded. Even when not funded, however, students receive detailed feedback on their research at the critical design stage. TESS broadens the participation of underrepresented groups, both as investigators and research participants. At the heart of TESS' mission is the democratization of access to high quality, original experimental data, thereby putting the power of population-based experiments in the hands of researchers from all backgrounds, all academic institutions, and all career stages. And because the TESS data collection platform involves a representative sample, the results of TESS projects reflect the broad diversity of the United States.","crimson_battery","Time-Sharing Experiments for the Social Sciences (TESS): Proposal for Renewed Support, 2012-2015",
"1303577","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Assessing the Origins of Trust and Trustworthiness","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2013","8/31/2015","Edgar Kiser","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Patricia White","10/31/2016","$11,998.00 ","Blaine Robbins","kiser@u.washington.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1303577<br/>PI: Edgar Kiser<br/>Co-PI: Blaine Robbins<br/>University of Washington<br/><br/>Trust is central to the development and growth of social and economic exchange. The goals of this dissertation project are to identify factors that promote trust, to understand the situational features that enable trust formation, and to pinpoint the dispositional sources of trust. Given the widespread interest in trust across the social sciences, this project will test theoretical propositions found in sociology, political science, economics, social psychology, and philosophy. To accomplish this, the investigators will administer a web-based survey consisting of two hypothetical scenarios - a ""car repair"" scenario and ""group project"" scenario - to a large subject pool of online participants. This will be used to measure characteristics of trust and trustworthiness experienced by the participants. With this integrative approach, the investigators hope to construct a more comprehensive framework for the study of trust that resolves interdisciplinary debates about its conceptualization and operationalization. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts:<br/>With globalization and cosmopolitanism continuing to increase, understanding the sources of trust is an enduring issue for social scientists. If successful, results might inform policymakers of the socio-demographic factors that promote not only trust, but also social relationships, economic transactions, and civil society among diverse populations. Furthermore, examining how trust forms under market and non-market conditions has applied implications for both economic growth and business administration. This research also has a significant education component, leading to the training of a graduate student who will eventually mentor and teach future students multifactorial vignette designs. Finally, the research involves modifications to a widely used open-source software program for web-based surveys, modifications that will be made freely available to interested researchers.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Assessing the Origins of Trust and Trustworthiness",
"1404371","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Testing the Intrinsic Benefit Model of Cultural Signaling","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2014","7/23/2014","Joseph Galaskiewicz","AZ","University of Arizona","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$6,457.00 ","Sosuke Okada","galaskie@u.arizona.edu","888 N Euclid Ave","Tucson","AZ","888 N Euclid Ave, Tucson, AZ","857194824","5206266000","SBE","1331","9179, SMET","$0.00 ","SES-1404371<br/>Joseph Galaskiewicz<br/>Sosuke Okada<br/>University of Arizona<br/><br/><br/>In many social interactions, it is important to determine qualities of others, such as competence, loyalty, or trustworthiness. Signaling theory focuses on these situations. The senders possess an internal characteristic which they aware of, but is unobservable to others. There is a conflict of interest between the sender and the receiver, as the sender benefits from being perceived in a better light, whereas the receiver wants to accurately determine the sender's internal characteristic. Under this condition, a signal will be reliable only when the cost of producing the signal is lower for those with higher quality than for those with lower quality. The co-PI proposes the model of cultural signaling where the sender can enjoy intrinsic benefits from engaging in a cultural act. The intrinsic benefit reduces the net cost of practicing the cultural act for the sender, which will result in the inverse association between quality and signaling cost. For example, if someone is more committed to a social cause, s/he can gain more intrinsic benefit (feeling good, for example) from contributing to the cause. This intrinsic benefit can make up for the actual cost of the contribution; therefore the contribution is effectively less expensive for those who are more committed to it. This way, cultural acts can function as signals of desirable internal qualities. <br/><br/>The intrinsic benefit model makes the following predictions. First, senders are more willing to pay higher cost to perform a cultural act when they have a high level of the corresponding characteristic. Second, a cultural act will be perceived as a signal of intrinsic quality when it appears to be costly for the sender to perform the cultural act, and there are no salient extrinsic benefits from signaling that are potentially motivating the cultural act. Third, the visibility of a cultural act should affect how well the cultural act can function as a signal. For the sender, high visibility of a cultural act can make it more attractive, but for the receiver, high visibility can make the sender's extrinsic motivation more salient. The project will conduct three experiments to test the predictions. The first two experiments will focus on purchase of an electronic vehicle as the signal of environmental commitment. The third experiment will focus on charitable giving as a signal of social preference. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>The main advantage of the intrinsic benefit model is that it provides a general, easy-to-use framework which will allow applying signaling theory across diverse phenomena of sociological interest while using an assumption which is widely accepted among laypersons. The proposal argues that applications in organizational studies (in particular, the interactions between organizations and their audience), intragroup dynamics (both cooperation and competition), and research on cultural capital can potentially greatly benefit from the intrinsic benefit model. This model can provide a parsimonious rational-choice based explanation for many behaviors that are seemingly irrational or culturally determined. In addition, it can also help develop techniques for promoting socially beneficial behaviors through manipulating signaling benefits. For example, the investigators argue that many seemingly maladaptive behaviors are motivated by the need for signaling -- not only can our research shed new insight into such behaviors, but it can also help reduce such behaviors by reducing signaling benefits.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Testing the Intrinsic Benefit Model of Cultural Signaling",
"1626891","Collaborative Research: Parent-Teacher Organizations Distribution of Learning Opportunities","SES","SOCIOLOGY, CROSS-DIRECTORATE ACTIV PROGR","9/1/2016","8/24/2016","Thurston Domina","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","8/31/2018","$175,442.00 ","","tdomina@email.unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","SBE","1331, 1397","8050","$0.00 ","Parent-Teacher Organizations and the Distribution of Learning Opportunities<br/><br/>This project uses parent-teacher organizations (PTOs) as a lens to view the ways in which parents and communities work together to contribute to children?s education. The authors also consider the consequences for those collective efforts for educational inequality. While prior research largely views PTOs as inconsequential based on their small contributions to school finances, more than 90 percent of parents of elementary school children report attending a PTO meeting. The collective action that parents undertake via PTOs often contributes to the definition of school cultures and shapes the distribution of learning opportunities within schools. Since PTO participation rates, as well as access to the financial, organizational, and social capital resources that PTOs generate, vary substantially across racial/ethnic and socio-economic groups; PTOs may simultaneously benefit some students and play a significant role in the reproduction of inequality across and within schools. To make sense of parental collective actions and their consequences, the authors develop three theoretically-informed hypotheses about how PTOs operated in schools: PTOs as generators of resources, PTOs as social capital, and PTOs as mechanisms for opportunity hoarding.<br/><br/>The analyses test these hypotheses by addressing the following research questions: How do parent-teacher organizations affect elementary school practices as well as student behavioral and academic outcomes? To what extent do parent-teacher organizations contribute to educational inequality both between and within schools? To do so, the authors construct an unprecedented data archive describing elementary school parent-teacher organizations. Working with the Urban Institute's National Center for Charitable Statistics' database of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) filings for U.S. non-profit organizations, the authors have extract data describing parent-teacher organizations affiliated with U.S. public schools between 2005 and 2012 and link these records with (1) school-level data from the National Center of Education Statistics? nationally representative Schools and Staffing Survey (SASS) and (2) student-level data from all North Carolina public elementary schools. This work, coupled with qualitative research designed to validate IRS measures of parents? collective action, will significantly contribute to the field of Sociology as well as educational practice by shedding light on how these organizations form and operate.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Parent-Teacher Organizations Distribution of Learning Opportunities",
"1626889","Collaborative Research: Parent-Teacher Organizations and the Distribution of Learning Opportunities","SES","SOCIOLOGY, CROSS-DIRECTORATE ACTIV PROGR","9/1/2016","8/24/2016","Linda Renzulli","GA","University of Georgia Research Foundation Inc","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","8/31/2018","$197,906.00 ","","renzulli@uga.edu","310 East Campus Rd","ATHENS","GA","310 East Campus Rd, ATHENS, GA","306021589","7065425939","SBE","1331, 1397","8050","$0.00 ","Parent-Teacher Organizations and the Distribution of Learning Opportunities<br/><br/>This project uses parent-teacher organizations (PTOs) as a lens to view the ways in which parents and communities work together to contribute to children's education. The authors also consider the consequences for those collective efforts for educational inequality. While prior research largely views PTOs as inconsequential based on their small contributions to school finances, more than 90 percent of parents of elementary school children report attending a PTO meeting. The collective action that parents undertake via PTOs often contributes to the definition of school cultures and shapes the distribution of learning opportunities within schools. Since PTO participation rates, as well as access to the financial, organizational, and social capital resources that PTOs generate, vary substantially across racial/ethnic and socio-economic groups; PTOs may simultaneously benefit some students and play a significant role in the reproduction of inequality across and within schools. To make sense of parental collective actions and their consequences, the authors develop three theoretically-informed hypotheses about how PTOs operated in schools: PTOs as generators of resources, PTOs as social capital, and PTOs as mechanisms for opportunity hoarding.<br/><br/>The analyses test these hypotheses by addressing the following research questions: How do parent-teacher organizations affect elementary school practices as well as student behavioral and academic outcomes? To what extent do parent-teacher organizations contribute to educational inequality both between and within schools? To do so, the authors construct an unprecedented data archive describing elementary school parent-teacher organizations. Working with the Urban Institute's National Center for Charitable Statistics' database of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) filings for U.S. non-profit organizations, the authors have extract data describing parent-teacher organizations affiliated with U.S. public schools between 2005 and 2012 and link these records with (1) school-level data from the National Center of Education Statistics? nationally representative Schools and Staffing Survey (SASS) and (2) student-level data from all North Carolina public elementary schools. This work, coupled with qualitative research designed to validate IRS measures of parents? collective action, will significantly contribute to the field of Sociology as well as educational practice by shedding light on how these organizations form and operate.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Parent-Teacher Organizations and the Distribution of Learning Opportunities",
"1562503","Research Data Centers: Kentucky Research Data Center","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","7/1/2016","7/1/2016","James Ziliak","KY","University of Kentucky Research Foundation","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2019","$299,999.00 ","Glen Mays, Derek Young, Christopher Bollinger, Eugenia Toma","jziliak@uky.edu","109 Kinkead Hall","Lexington","KY","109 Kinkead Hall, Lexington, KY","405260001","8592579420","SBE","1320, 1331, 1333, 1352","9150","$0.00 ","SES - 1562503<br/>James P Ziliak<br/>Christopher R Bollinger<br/>Glen Mays<br/>Eugenia F Toma<br/>Derek Young<br/>University of Kentucky<br/><br/>This project establishes the Kentucky Research Data Center (KRDC) in Lexington, Ky. as a partnership between the Bureau of the Census and the University of Kentucky, and will join an existing network of over two dozen such RDCs throughout the nation. In addition to faculty and students at the University of Kentucky, inaugural consortium partners are Indiana University, The Ohio State University, the University of Cincinnati, and the University of Louisville. The establishment of KRDC will have a broad impact on the infrastructure available to scholars and students in the East-Central consortium region, whose translational research will impact economic, social, and health policy both regionally and nationally. Moreover, because many researchers at KRDC's consortium schools currently collaborate with colleagues at universities across the country with an RDC, the establishment of KRDC will significantly ease those collaborations, improve research productivity, advance the dissemination of published data products, and foster new research networks. <br/><br/>Research that informs evidence-based policy is in heightened need in this era of fiscal austerity and economic and demographic change. For purposes of preserving respondent confidentiality, many major social, health, and business surveys suppress identifying information such as state or county of residence from publicly released data. This inhibits certain forms of research, including tracking the health and economic status of individuals across states and over time, characterizing urban growth and decline using address-level unit status records of living quarters and nonresidential units, and the more formal statistical evaluation of the effectiveness of public policies. However, restricted-access research data centers (RDCs) permit the study of issues having scientific and social import within a secure environment that ensures respondent confidentiality. <br/><br/>The investigators affiliated with KRDC reflect the cross-disciplinary expertise of the consortium schools with the areas of economics, sociology, public health, public policy, statistics, nutrition, education, social work, and medicine represented. They will conduct research on topics spanning income inequality, poverty measurement and anti-poverty policies, education, health disparities across geographic regions, race and gender, domestic violence and substance use, food insecurity, immigration, and firm dynamics and government procurement processes. In the secure data environment, the projects will utilize nearly twenty different Federal statistical datasets supported by the Bureau of the Census, the National Center for Health Statistics, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, and other federal agencies that contribute data to the RDC network such as the Bureau of Justice Statistics, Housing and Urban Development, Bureau of Labor Statistics, and Department of Agriculture.","crimson_battery","Research Data Centers: Kentucky Research Data Center",
"1533746","Standardized World Income Inequality Database","SES","SOCIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE","8/15/2015","7/27/2016","Frederick Solt","IA","University of Iowa","Continuing grant","Lee Walker","7/31/2018","$146,750.00 ","","frederick-solt@uiowa.edu","2 GILMORE HALL","IOWA CITY","IA","2 GILMORE HALL, IOWA CITY, IA","522421320","3193352123","SBE","1331, 1371","9150, 9179","$0.00 ","General Summary<br/><br/>The Standardized World Income Inequality Database (SWIID) aims to provide data on income inequality for the broadest possible sample of countries and years that are made as comparable as possible. Income inequality is an enduring focus of inquiry in the social sciences that has attracted renewed attention from policymakers and the public. Economists, political scientists, sociologists, and other social scientists have long sought to explain why incomes are relatively equal in some countries and times and much larger disparities between rich and poor are found in others. The effects of income inequality on other forms of social inequality, such as health disparities, and on other phenomena ranging from political violence to economic growth to democratic transitions are similarly vital questions. The reliability of the results of these investigations and any policy interventions they suggest, depend crucially on the quality of the income-inequality data they employ; the SWIID is therefore a data infrastructure project that is central to the promotion of scientific progress on these topics.<br/><br/><br/>Technical Summary<br/><br/>The SWIID surpasses other inequality datasets by directly addressing their tradeoff between coverage of countries over time and the comparability of the data they supply. It does so by using model-based multiple-imputation methods on data drawn from regional collections, national statistical offices, and academic studies to generate estimates for the missing country-years in the high-quality but sparse Luxembourg Income Study dataset. It currently provides comparable estimates of market- and net-income inequality for 174 countries for as many years as possible from 1960 to the present. The proposed research comprises four principal activities to improve the SWIID project: (1) acquiring and cleaning data to expand its coverage, (2) assessing and improving the multiple-imputation techniques used to ensure its estimates are comparable, (3) expanding documentation to help researchers use income-inequality data in ways appropriate to their research questions, and (4) improving the web-based system for disseminating the SWIID to researchers, educators, and policymakers worldwide. The SWIID has been used by thousands of researchers around the world working in academia, governments, non-governmental organizations, international organizations, and news agencies. Expanded and refined versions of the SWIID will make improved knowledge on income inequality even more accessible to policymakers and the public as well as to researchers and educators.","crimson_atom","Standardized World Income Inequality Database",
"1355671","The Development of Cross-national Income and Wealth Databases: The Luxembourg Income and Wealth Studies 2014-2018","SES","SOCIOLOGY, ECONOMICS, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, SBE Data Surveys & Studies, POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/15/2014","6/17/2016","Janet Gornick","NY","CUNY Graduate School University Center","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2019","$870,912.00 ","","jgornick@gc.cuny.edu","365 Fifth Avenue","New York","NY","365 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY","100164309","2128177523","SBE","1331, 1320, 1333, 7238, 1371","6867","$0.00 ","SES-1355671<br/>Janet Gornick <br/>CUNY Graduate School <br/><br/>Founded in 1983--LIS formerly known as the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) -- is a unique, cross-national data archive and research center which fosters primary research by providing access to household microdata. LIS operates as a consortium of countries, governed by an international board, and serving an international community of researchers. LIS has four, longstanding goals: 1) harmonize micro-datasets, from multiple countries, which include data on income, wealth, employment and demography; 2) provide a secure method that allows access to data with privacy restrictions; 3) create a remote-execution system to enable research conducted from off-site locations; and 4) promote the use of microdata in comparative research on social and economic wellbeing on a global level, conduct research onsite, and sponsor and host scholars using the LIS data.<br/><br/>LIS is a unique, cross-national data infrastructure, which is indispensable for understanding the social and economic wellbeing of people in today?s globalized world. Created expressly to foster primary research by providing access to household microdata, LIS enables the highest quality social science research, both theoretical and empirical, and informs analyses of a broad array of social and economic policies and institutions. LIS operates as a consortium of countries, governed by an international board, and serves an international community of researchers. LIS prepares and maintains two databases, the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) Database and the Luxembourg Wealth Study (LWS). The LIS Database includes income, employment, and demographic variables at the person- and household-level; there currently over 250 micro-datasets from 46 countries, spanning 1968 to 2011; the LWS Database contains 20 wealth datasets from 12 countries and covers 1994 to 2007. LIS and LWS datasets, together, cover 86% of the world GDP and 64% of world population. New datasets and new countries are being added regularly.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts <br/><br/>LIS houses the only data infrastructure that includes income, wealth, and labor market microdata, spanning decades and from diverse geographic regions. The LIS datasets foster research on economic and social policies and their effects on outcomes including poverty, income inequality, employment status, wage patterns, gender inequality, and family structure. The LWS datasets enable research on wealth portfolios, asset levels, and the interplay between household income and wealth. The activities, goals, and accomplishments of LIS match NSF priorities (NSF Strategic Plan 2011-2016), most especially transforming frontiers of knowledge, building research infrastructure, encouraging international engagement in science, and promoting multidisciplinary research. Moreover, LIS fits well with NSF's longstanding emphasis on making knowledge accessible to policy-makers and the public at large. LIS serves thousands of researchers worldwide, from various disciplines, including economics, sociology, political science, policy studies, and public health. Users come from academia, government agencies, non-governmental agencies, supranational organizations and news agencies; one-third of registered users are American. LIS provides online instructional materials, user support, and annual training workshops. LIS is a physical and virtual venue for researchers to exchange ideas, results, and methods; these exchanges take place through the Working Paper Series, the Visiting Scholar Program, LIS conferences and workshops, and pre- and post-doctoral scholarships will develop valuable new skills in a stimulating interdisciplinary environment.","crimson_atom","The Development of Cross-national Income and Wealth Databases: The Luxembourg Income and Wealth Studies 2014-2018",
"1423784","Constructing and Validating an Automated Coding System for Electronic News Sources","SES","SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","8/15/2014","7/1/2015","Pamela Oliver","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Continuing grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$341,831.00 ","Chaeyoon Lim","oliver@ssc.wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331, 1333","9179, 9251","$0.00 ","This project builds, tests, and validates an open-source automated system for coding social movement data from electronically available news sources. Although no source is perfect, scholars agree that the best general source of such data, specifically that on social protest, is a compilation of a large number of news sources. This project draws on the advances in machine learning developed in computer science and statistics and combining them with our deep substantive knowledge as sociologists of the problems of identifying and coding collective action events in news sources. An existing highly-regarded hand-coded data set based on the New York Times is used as the reference for ""training"" machine learning algorithms -- called ""classifiers"" -- to recognize elements of an action event in a news article and extract relevant information. We also collect and hand-code new data drawn from other regional, national, and international news sources to provide additional training sets to increase the range and variety of protests we are able to detect. A supplement to the project provides research experience for undergraduates who will be involved in collecting and coding these new data.<br/><br/>This project builds, tests, and validates an open-source automated system for coding data from electronically available news sources. It advances the state of data collection in social science and employs the latest developments in natural language processing and supervised machine learning within computer science and statistics. The result will be an open-source, publicly available system that may be used by other researchers and further improved and expanded.<br/><br/>This project promises to provide an important new methodological tool of broad interdisciplinary value to social scientists and to open the door to more efficiently compiling collective action-data from news sources that can improve both academic scholarship and public policy. All of the code for this project will be released under an open-source license and publicly accessible through a public source code repository. This work will be accessible and useful to scholars in social movements, international relations, and foreign policy. The work will also be of use to a large number of non-academics, such as foreign policy analysts and decision-makers, journalists, and those interested in computational methods of textual analysis and classification. The ability to code collective action data more efficiently and accurately from news sources has broad policy applicability.","crimson_atom","Constructing and Validating an Automated Coding System for Electronic News Sources",
"1322934","Collaborative Research: Wikipedia and the Democratization of Academic Knowledge","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2013","8/28/2013","Julia Adams","CT","Yale University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$132,000.00 ","","julia.adams@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","SBE","1331, 7603","8050","$0.00 ","SES-1322934 <br/>PI: Julia Adams <br/>Yale University <br/><br/>SES-1322971 <br/>PI: Hannah Brueckner <br/>New York University <br/><br/>Wikipedia was launched in 2001 and has since become the world's single most important reference tool and information clearinghouse. Unlike traditional encyclopedias, which are controlled by experts, Wikipedia was supposed to have democratized knowledge. Yet an emerging body of research indicates that Wikipedia suffers from systematic gender bias with respect to both contributors and content. How and why is this bias produced? This project focuses on identifying the mechanisms impinging on Wikipedia's representation of several academic disciplines, drawn from the sciences, social sciences, and the humanities respectively. Drawing on theoretical insights from the sociology of knowledge, the investigators are exploring potential gender differences in indicators of academic notability, the existence of networks that help contributors mobilize resources for content creation, gate keeping processes that result in challenges to content associated with women and scholarship, and the unintended consequences of Wikipedia's policies themselves. Do these and other related processes vary across academic disciplines? The project deploys both quantitative and qualitative social science methods as it seeks to illuminate the gender-specific patterns of representation of scholars and scholarship.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/>The investigators are committed to the goal of training new social scientists amid a landscape of enhanced interdisciplinary understanding. Yet the potential impact of this project reaches far beyond the academy. Under-representation of female scholars and associated scholarship reduces the quality and completeness of Wikipedia, imposing significant costs on the millions of readers who rely on it. The findings from this research should clarify where in the complex chain of knowledge gender disparities arise. The findings should also bolster ongoing efforts to address those disparities, in this case by improving quality and reducing bias on academic -- and more general -- Wikipedia.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Wikipedia and the Democratization of Academic Knowledge",
"1423025","Variations in Meaning and Community Response to Illness","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2014","8/14/2014","Claire Decoteau","IL","University of Illinois at Chicago","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$193,972.00 ","","decoteau@uic.edu","809 S MARSHFIELD","Chicago","IL","809 S MARSHFIELD, Chicago, IL","606124305","3129962862","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","This project examines the ways in which individuals and communities come to understand illness and how their explanations impact their health behavior and health care choices. It contributes to current sociological research which explores how laypeople get involved in and change the course of scientific research and policy. There is growing statistical evidence that Somali refugee populations have higher prevalence rates of autism spectrum disorder than all other ethnic/racial groups. This project examines the ways that groups of Somali parents of children with autism in two national contexts (Minneapolis, MN and Toronto, Canada) have forged movements to understand and address their health experiences. Groups in each location have developed divergent approaches to treatment and vaccine uptake. This is the first study to examine the ways in which minority groups make sense of their experiences with autism.<br/><br/>In this research, the investigator develops the concept of ""epistemic communities"" through a cross-national comparison, which has both theoretical and practical implications. This project has four specific aims: 1) to describe and explain the causal theories parents have about the development of autism; 2) to describe the health experiences of parents of children with autism (from the discovery of the disorder, through securing diagnosis, accessing benefits and resources, and seeking treatment) in Toronto and Minneapolis; 3) to explain when/if parents get involved in or forge a health social movement; and 4) to examine the causal links between these three previous dynamics. The PI will accomplish these aims through two years of qualitative research of Somali families in Minneapolis and Toronto. This research into the formation of epistemic communities on autism has profound implications for understanding health behavior and the interaction of laypeople with scientific expertise. Such information could lead to better and more accurate policy initiatives on health care and support for those with autism, not to mention better information on vaccine skepticism and refusal. Further, racial minorities have been underrepresented in the research on autism, and this project seeks to address this bias.","crimson_battery","Variations in Meaning and Community Response to Illness",
"1530714","Collaborative Research: Broadening Participation and Perspectives in the Study of Crime and Justice","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, ","9/1/2015","7/13/2016","Jody Miller","NJ","Rutgers University Newark","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$778,008.00 ","Rod Brunson","jodymill@andromeda.rutgers.edu","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206","Newark","NJ","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206, Newark, NJ","71021896","9739720283","SBE","1331, 1372, P184","9251","$0.00 ","SES- 1530714<br/>Jody Miller<br/>Rod Brunson<br/>Rutgers University Newark<br/><br/>SES-1530728<br/>Ruth Peterson<br/>Ohio State University<br/><br/>This proposal continues the successful collaboration of a group of scholars from diverse backgrounds (African American, Asian, Latino, and White), disciplines (Criminology or Criminal Justice, Family Relations, Law, Public Policy, Political Science, Social Work, and Sociology), and stages of career (assistant-, associate-, and full-professors, and graduate students) whose work is oriented to (1) broadening perspectives and participation in research on crime and criminal justice, and (2) improving the quality of research on the interlinkages among race/ethnicity, crime, and criminal justice. These scholars (the Racial Democracy, Crime and Justice Network, RDCJN) established a Summer Research Institute (SRI) and annual summer workshops as vehicles for pursuing these goals. The group has achieved a number of important successes that include graduating 68 young scholars from the nine SRIs held thus far. These faculty are publishing and gaining tenure. Indeed, 33 of the 68 have attained tenure, and many more will join this group over the next few years. Thus, the project is actively ""participation"" in STEM fields in an area with significant underrepresentation of minority scholars. Specifically, the extent of underrepresentation of scholars of color within criminology and criminal justice is relatively high. Among American Society of Criminology (ASC) members who report their race/ethnicity, just 5.6% are Black; 5.1% are Latino/a; 5.8% are Asian; 1% are American Indian, and 1.4% identify as ""other.""<br/><br/>Besides fostering the academic career success of young faculty from underrepresented groups, the Racial Democracy, Crime and Justice Network has undertaken activities to improve research on the interrelationships among race/ethnicity, crime and criminal justice. The group has developed a comprehensive research agenda and undertaken collaborative projects to address the issues posed. Their efforts also include working to publish in mainstream sources so that the perspectives of underrepresented faculty become integrated into the mainstream of literature on crime and justice problems. Given their unique backgrounds, experiences, and vantage points on crime and criminal justice, members of underrepresented groups bring alternative perspectives, approaches, and types of data to bear in studying these topics. To the extent that such alternative approaches shed light on criminal offending and victimization, the operations of criminal justice agencies, and the treatment of different groups within the criminal justice system, it is important that they be included in the mainstream of disciplines. Such inclusion fosters understanding of the sources and consequences of crime and the criminal justice processing of suspects, defendants, and offenders, and contributes to the successful careers among underrepresented scholars.. <br/><br/>The RDCJN goals are to continue to (1) advance the research and professional development of young scholars from underrepresented groups for carrying out innovative research, and thereby foster democratic inclusion in academe; and (2) undertake additional collaborative projects that provide a more complete understanding of the interrelationships among race/ethnicity, crime, and criminal justice. These goals are interrelated. Improving understanding of crime and justice requires bringing the unique perspectives and methods of underrepresented groups to bear by democratizing academe. The annual RDCJN workshops integrate the SRI faculty into a national network of scholars, while also: facilitating progress in exploring a national research agenda on the study of race/ethnicity, crime and justice; yielding volumes of studies (6 so far) that enhance understanding of this topic and bring the work produced by underrepresented scholars into mainstream outlets; promoting the development of collaborative projects by participants; and enhancing the professional development of diverse young scholars who participate in the RDCJN, but not the SRI.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Broadening Participation and Perspectives in the Study of Crime and Justice",
"1557082","Reshaping and Modeling the Criminal Justice System through Science, Technology, and Systems Analysis","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2016","7/15/2016","Bruce Hoffman","OH","Ohio University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2018","$146,057.00 ","","hoffmanb@ohio.edu","108 CUTLER HL","ATHENS","OH","108 CUTLER HL, ATHENS, OH","457012979","7405932857","SBE","1331","9179, 9251","$0.00 ","SES-1557082<br/>Bruce Hoffman<br/>Ohio University<br/><br/>This project uses archival materials from the Presidents Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice (1965-67) and interviews with commission staff to investigate the use of empirical science and technologies of systems analysis to rationalize and reshape traditional criminal justice practice. Regarded as a defining moment in the organization of criminal justice and criminological science due to its creation of federal institutions to fund criminal justice research, other contributions of the commission have been less appreciated, including its impact on criminal justice education by creating a disciplinary field of criminal justice distinct from sociology and its use of systems analysis to create models of the criminal justice process as an integrated system whose varied components were coordinated towards the common goal of crime control. This project will conduct the first sustained analysis of the Crime Commission, investigating how diverse visions of crime prevention and criminal justice were introduced, negotiated, packaged, and enacted over the course of the commission and by other groups in its immediate aftermath; how knowledge production was shaped through organizational dynamics between commissioners and the staff of the commissions nine task force panels; and the specific impact of the Science and Technology Task Force, which brought systems analysis to the field of ""civil defense"" and the ""war on crime."" <br/><br/>The project's focus on science and technology provides a nuanced challenge to interpretations of the commission as extending Great Society agendas in uncomplicated ways. It explores how initial commission concerns with poverty and social causation dropped out of the commission's mappings and models of the criminal justice process, anticipating and shaping subsequent approaches and policy, and helps illuminate the subsequent extension of criminal justice technologies into everyday life. The analysis of extensive transcripts of meetings spanning a sixteenth month period adds to our understanding of the construction of scientific advisory reports, showing how diverse understandings of scientific aims and political interests are negotiated and packaged for perceived audiences. The project also serves as the last opportunity to preserve the memories and contemporary evaluations of justice practices by commission staff whose careers that began with the possibilities of the Crime Commission and witnessed unprecedented transformations in criminal justice practices. <br/><br/>The project is based in the empirical collection and analysis of three types of data. First, the study will use the tools of contemporary science studies to engage in a careful textual analysis of the public documents of the crime commission, interpreting these technical reports as public performances through which scientific credibility is communicated and maintained. Second, the analysis of official accounts will be complemented by the analysis of internal accounts collected at NARA sites and related collections. The archives are believed to contain a variety of relevant documents, including transcripts from commission meetings, notes from advisory panels, internal letters and memoranda, drafts of reports, and early maps and models of the criminal justice process. Both the public documents and internal documents will be coded using similar coding mechanisms enabling larger themes and developments to emerge. Third, the investigator will seek to contact and conduct audiotaped or videotaped interviews of all available staff connected with the commission. The goal of these interviews is to collect general perspectives of recollected operations, aspirations, and tensions within the crime commission across multiple organizational roles and standpoints, which can be cross-referenced with archival documents and other interviews. The investigator will also seek to record and gain participants' insights into previously unrecognized connections between the systems model being set forth and the subsequent development of criminal justice and criminology, as well as their interpretation and evaluation of later developments.<br/><br/>The project will design an interactive website designed for classroom use. The site will use techniques of science and technology studies to translate the project's central themes concerning science and the origins of the criminal justice system. At a time of heightened interest and criticism of US policies of mass incarceration and institutionalized criminal justice responses to racial inequality and popular protest, the project and website serves as an important ""history of the present"" that contextualizes how contemporary configurations of criminological science and criminal justice practices emerged and illuminates alternative paths not taken. The study also trains a team of undergraduates in archival research, the organization and analysis of primary source documents, and the development and presentation of research at professional meetings.","crimson_battery","Reshaping and Modeling the Criminal Justice System through Science, Technology, and Systems Analysis",
"1359527","Kansas City Research Data Center","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, Science of Organizations","8/15/2014","8/18/2014","Donna Ginther","KS","University of Kansas Center for Research Inc","Standard Grant","Nancy A. Lutz","7/31/2017","$300,000.00 ","Mark Parry, Robert Strom, Jonathan Willis, Colleen Heflin","dginther@ku.edu","2385 IRVING HILL RD","LAWRENCE","KS","2385 IRVING HILL RD, LAWRENCE, KS","660457568","7858643441","SBE","1320, 1331, 1333, 8031","9150","$0.00 ","This award will establish a new Census Research Data Center in Kansas City. The center will be used by faculty from the University of Kansas City Lawrence and the University of Missouri Kansas City, as well as by researchers from the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the Ewing Marion Kauffman with a satellite center on the campus of the University of Missouri Columbia. The center will allow these researchers to use government data records for cutting edge research in economics, sociology, management, demography, health, and related disciplines. The center allows researchers access to the data while fully maintaining the privacy and confidentiality of the data records. The center will join an existing network of 18 Census Research Data Centers located round the country. Since these other centers are primarily on the East and West coasts, the center will be an important addition to the research capacity of Kansas and Missouri.<br/><br/>This RDC will be used for projects on a wide range of topics. There is a significant community of researchers in this part of the US who focus the scientific study of entrepreneurship. Several of the researchers who will make immediate use of the new center will use the restricted-access Census microdata to test innovative new hypotheses about the effects of entrepreneurship and small business on the US economy.","crimson_battery","Kansas City Research Data Center",
"1411825","Elite Framing of Social Movements","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2014","8/9/2014","Thomas Shriver","NC","North Carolina State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$186,449.00 ","","teshrive@ncsu.edu","CAMPUS BOX 7514","RALEIGH","NC","CAMPUS BOX 7514, RALEIGH, NC","276957514","9195152444","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","This research examines the ways in which authoritarian systems negatively characterize protestors in order to protect their own legitimacy and justify the use of harsh repression. While research has examined how social movements articulate their grievances, this study will make a contribution by analyzing how repressive systems frame their messages and the implications those frames have for citizens. This project focuses on the historical case of popular resistance to a 1953 currency reform in Czechoslovakia, one of the first uprisings against Communism in the Eastern Bloc. <br/><br/>This project will draw upon extensive examination of archival legal documents and in-depth interviews with protest participants, to analyze how characterizations of protesters served to legitimate state interests and influence repression. The findings will have relevance for understanding how other authoritarian systems have historically repressed citizens and quashed public protest. The research will result in the creation of large data sets that will be available to educators, scholars, and the public via the Internet. This study has important educational impacts, as its findings will contribute to the development of college level courses in sociology and history, and it will provide hands-on training in research and collaborative opportunities with the principal investigator for students at North Carolina State University.","crimson_battery","Elite Framing of Social Movements",
"1451100","Linking Constitutional Content and Civil Society Relationships","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","6/4/2015","Kiyoteru Tsutsui","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$178,760.00 ","","tsutsui@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","1372, 1331","9179","$0.00 ","This project seeks to understand how the contents of national constitutions change over time and how those changes affect civil society relationships in different countries. It focuses specifically on content related to strategies toward incorporation of minority groups into public and private domains and examines what consequences they might have on majority-minority relationships. The history of a national constitution represents changing understanding of the model of a nation. In many countries over time, it is the case that, with the rise of rights discourse, cultural rights of ethnic, linguistic, and religious minority groups often become constitutionally recognized, enabling citizens freedom to practice their culture to the extent such practice does not undermine the cultural unity of the nation. This research will propose to answer the following questions: How have these transformations changed over time? Who were the leading countries in these transformations, and what precipitated them to make those changes? Furthermore, have these changes in constitutional provisions about civil society relationships produced any changes in the actual practice of minority rights protection? <br/><br/>This project tackles these questions by collecting data on all national constitutions in the world from 1789 to 2010 and coding them into three indexes of majority-minority relationships: the cultural homogeneity model, which emphasizes congruence of cultural and civic units; the individual cultural rights model, which allows minorities to practice individual cultural rights primarily in the private sphere; and multiculturalism, which promotes and protects minority groups' collective cultural rights. Using these indexes, and drawing on insights from sociology of law and globalization studies, the project will examine the causes and consequences of changes in constitutional stipulations of minority rights. The project will reveal the influence of global factors on seemingly national legal processes. The project will also use innovative methodologies -- multi-dimensional scaling and plagiarism detection software -- to examine more precisely how legal models diffuse globally and will present a model for future research on legal changes. As a detailed effort to collect comprehensive cross-national data on how constitutional minority rights provisions have changed over the last two hundred plus years, it will advance scholarly and public understanding of minority and ethnic relations, especially as they relate to globalization. The results of the research will be disseminated broadly and globally in presentations and publications that are accessible to policy makers and lay audiences.","crimson_atom","Linking Constitutional Content and Civil Society Relationships",
"1530728","Collaborative Research: Broadening Participation and Perspectives in the Study of Crime and Justice","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2015","7/7/2015","Ruth Peterson","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$33,588.00 ","","peterson.5@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331, 1372","9179","$0.00 ","SES- 1530714<br/>Jody Miller<br/>Rod Brunson<br/>Rutgers University Newark<br/><br/>SES-1530728<br/>Ruth Peterson<br/>Ohio State University<br/><br/>This proposal continues the successful collaboration of a group of scholars from diverse backgrounds (African American, Asian, Latino, and White), disciplines (Criminology or Criminal Justice, Family Relations, Law, Public Policy, Political Science, Social Work, and Sociology), and stages of career (assistant-, associate-, and full-professors, and graduate students) whose work is oriented to (1) broadening perspectives and participation in research on crime and criminal justice, and (2) improving the quality of research on the interlinkages among race/ethnicity, crime, and criminal justice. These scholars (the Racial Democracy, Crime and Justice Network, RDCJN) established a Summer Research Institute (SRI) and annual summer workshops as vehicles for pursuing these goals. The group has achieved a number of important successes that include graduating 68 young scholars from the nine SRIs held thus far. These faculty are publishing and gaining tenure. Indeed, 33 of the 68 have attained tenure, and many more will join this group over the next few years. Thus, the project is actively ""participation"" in STEM fields in an area with significant underrepresentation of minority scholars. Specifically, the extent of underrepresentation of scholars of color within criminology and criminal justice is relatively high. Among American Society of Criminology (ASC) members who report their race/ethnicity, just 5.6% are Black; 5.1% are Latino/a; 5.8% are Asian; 1% are American Indian, and 1.4% identify as ?other.?<br/><br/>Besides fostering the academic career success of young faculty from underrepresented groups, the Racial Democracy, Crime and Justice Network has undertaken activities to improve research on the interrelationships among race/ethnicity, crime and criminal justice. The group has developed a comprehensive research agenda and undertaken collaborative projects to address the issues posed. Their efforts also include working to publish in mainstream sources so that the perspectives of underrepresented faculty become integrated into the mainstream of literature on crime and justice problems. Given their unique backgrounds, experiences, and vantage points on crime and criminal justice, members of underrepresented groups bring alternative perspectives, approaches, and types of data to bear in studying these topics. To the extent that such alternative approaches shed light on criminal offending and victimization, the operations of criminal justice agencies, and the treatment of different groups within the criminal justice system, it is important that they be included in the mainstream of disciplines. Such inclusion fosters understanding of the sources and consequences of crime and the criminal justice processing of suspects, defendants, and offenders, and contributes to the successful careers among underrepresented scholars.. <br/><br/>The RDCJN goals are to continue to (1) advance the research and professional development of young scholars from underrepresented groups for carrying out innovative research, and thereby foster democratic inclusion in academe; and (2) undertake additional collaborative projects that provide a more complete understanding of the interrelationships among race/ethnicity, crime, and criminal justice. These goals are interrelated. Improving understanding of crime and justice requires bringing the unique perspectives and methods of underrepresented groups to bear by democratizing academe. The annual RDCJN workshops integrate the SRI faculty into a national network of scholars, while also: facilitating progress in exploring a national research agenda on the study of race/ethnicity, crime and justice; yielding volumes of studies (6 so far) that enhance understanding of this topic and bring the work produced by underrepresented scholars into mainstream outlets; promoting the development of collaborative projects by participants; and enhancing the professional development of diverse young scholars who participate in the RDCJN, but not the SRI.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Broadening Participation and Perspectives in the Study of Crime and Justice",
"1560544","The Spatial Mobility of Communities' Organizational Resources","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/25/2016","Joseph Galaskiewicz","AZ","University of Arizona","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$49,998.00 ","","galaskie@u.arizona.edu","888 N Euclid Ave","Tucson","AZ","888 N Euclid Ave, Tucson, AZ","857194824","5206266000","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1560544<br/>Joseph Galaskiewicz <br/>University of Arizona<br/><br/>Most scholars who study inequality focus on household income and wealth. This is obviously important. But families' life chances are also affected by where they live and how well they are able to access what they need. Neighborhoods matter. Research has documented how living in racially segregated communities, areas of concentrated poverty, and areas which are crime ridden place residents at an extreme disadvantage. Past research shows the reason for these conditions is there are not organizational resources in these communities that can provide families basic services, e.g., supermarkets, clubs, churches, banks, restaurants,and pharmacies. The purpose of this research is to understand why establishments locate where they do and if social factors (e.g., race/ethnicity, social class, crime), market forces (e.g., competition, housing prices, consumer demand), or political factors (e.g., planning) matter more. Also, because the study period includes the Great Recession, it is possible to see how extreme conditions impacted neighborhoods' stocks of organizational resources.<br/><br/>The research posits that residents' well-being is a function of their spatial capital. That is, do they have the ability to access locally the organizational resources they need? Access is a function not only of families' financial and cultural capital, but also their proximity to organizational resources, location in the transportation grid, control over spatial technologies, and social traits that allow them to gain access to facilities they seeks. However, this study recognizes the need for a better understanding of the organizations and their movement across the metroscape. The research seeks to answer two research questions. First, what causes establishments to locate where they do in the metropolitan community? What leads to births and growth? What leads to deaths and decline? The study focuses on planning and zoning initiatives by government, ecological processes, e.g., competition among organizations and forms, and community context particularly crime. Second, what can we learn about neighborhood resilience from one metropolitan area?s experience with financial meltdown? This project will collect data which complements ten years of research on tens of thousands of establishments and their location in the Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale urbanized area. <br/><br/>The study has broader significance, because families' access to different types of activities is important for children's educational, emotional, and social development, yet not all children have equal access to high quality programs, activities, and opportunities. There is a spatial mismatch between supply and demand. By focusing this research on the supply side of the market, the investigator hopes to gain a better understanding of nonprofit, for-profit, and government behaviors. Research outcomes could potentially inform policy makers on how to motivate providers to locate/stay in under-served areas or to empower families to advocate for and provide these services. The research furthers NSF?s mission of supporting basic research and using that knowledge to improve the human condition. While most recognize that extreme inequality is not a desirable state, we do not know what to do about it. While it may not be possible to redistribute wealth equitably, there should be ways of making organizational resources more spatially accessible so that all residents have a chance at a healthy, happy, and prosperous life. This research contributes to the basic knowledge necessary to address these issues. The research also contributes to several fields of inquiry and hopefully will stimulate further research in sociology, urban planning, geography, urban economics, transportation studies, and spatial science (GIS).","crimson_battery","The Spatial Mobility of Communities' Organizational Resources",
"1566136","Research Data Centers: The Rocky Mountain Research Data Center","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, ECONOMICS, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, SOCIOLOGY","5/15/2016","5/5/2016","Keith Maskus","CO","University of Colorado at Boulder","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","4/30/2019","$300,000.00 ","Myron Gutmann, Jason Boardman, Seth Spielman, Jani Little","keith.maskus@colorado.edu","3100 Marine Street, Room 481","Boulder","CO","3100 Marine Street, Room 481, Boulder, CO","803031058","3034926221","SBE","1333, 1320, 1352, 1331","","$0.00 ","This project will establish a Federal Statistical Research Data Center in the Rocky Mountain region. The Rocky Mountain Research Data Center (RMRDC) at the University of Colorado-Boulder will be a restricted and secure environment where social scientists and health researchers in this region will have improved access to confidential federal statistical data. Nearly all major research institutions near the University of Colorado-Boulder will use and support the center, including the University of Wyoming, Colorado State University, University of Colorado-Denver, the Anschutz Medical Campus, the University of Colorado-Colorado Springs, the National Center for Atmospheric Research, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, and the Colorado State Government. This project will facilitate cross-institutional research and allow scientists in the region to study new questions in such areas as international economics, environmental sciences, and public health. The research to be conducted will expand knowledge about regional issues, benefiting federal and local government agencies and citizens of the area. Because this region has an information-based, knowledge-intensive economy, commercial innovation will be stimulated by the research advances gained from the federal statistical data. The research to be conducted will advance scientific knowledge and simultaneously deliver tangible benefits to the federal statistical system. The project will enhance graduate-level training in cutting-edge social statistics and support specialized workforce development across multiple disciplines. Students, faculty, and other researchers will transfer considerable technical expertise to local and national organizations as they become familiar with restricted federal data and build skills in analyzing large and complex datasets. <br/><br/>Several important areas of economics, geography, sociology, and public health will be emphasized at the RMRDC. One immediate set of projects will study how the movement of U.S. production overseas affects employment and wages across detailed locations and occupations, accounting for trade-induced national and international innovation impacts. A second set will consider how mineral and energy extraction influences state and local economies within the region. These and other issues will be addressed using data from the Census of Manufacturing, the Annual Survey of Manufacturing, and the Longitudinal Business Database. Spatial scientists will use restricted census data to improve population estimates for small geographic areas and to enhance methods of disseminating data for the U.S. Census Bureau. Studies of the effects of changing environmental conditions and extreme events on human populations will benefit from having access to more detailed socioeconomic and demographic data. Health scientists will combine restricted population data with health data from the National Center for Health Statistics to ask questions about how local socioeconomic characteristics affect health behavior and outcomes, such as declines in teenage birth rates, increased early life mortality, and the protective influences of Hispanic neighborhoods.","crimson_battery","Research Data Centers: The Rocky Mountain Research Data Center",
"1558986","Building Social Science Data Infrastructure: The 2016 National Asian American Survey","SES","SOCIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE","4/15/2016","4/21/2016","Karthick Ramakrishnan","CA","University of California-Riverside","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2018","$507,132.00 ","Taeku Lee, Jennifer Lee, Janelle Wong","karthick@ucr.edu","Office of Research","RIVERSIDE","CA","Office of Research, RIVERSIDE, CA","925211000","9518275535","SBE","1331, 1371","9179","$0.00 ","SES-1558986<br/>Karthick Ramakrishnan <br/>University of California-Riverside <br/><br/>Asian Americans are the fastest-growing racial group in the United States, and there are important gaps in our understanding of their social and civic integration. In addition, Asian Americans exhibit significant socioeconomic diversity, making them ideal for answering larger theoretical questions on immigrant incorporation in the United States, as it is shaped by differences in national origin, residential concentration, and educational and labor market outcomes. This project will build a data resource for public release in June 2017 that will have widespread utility among scholars in social science disciplines, most notably in sociology, political science, and public policy, as well for journalists and bloggers versed in social science data and trends. The survey of Asian Americans will provide important data for questions related to immigrant incorporation, attitudes on economic inequality and race-relations, and civic and political engagement. In addition to providing comparisons within the Asian American racial category, we will include cross-racial comparisons (to African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and non-Hispanic whites) using the same instrument and mode of interview. This project advances the mission of the National Science Foundation to promote the progress of science, particularly the social sciences, as well as to advance national health, prosperity, and welfare. In particular, this project has relevance in terms of broader impacts as specified by Congress in 2010: Asian Americans have a disproportionately large number of high-skilled workers in STEM fields. Understanding their experiences, attitudes, opportunities, and barriers, will be critical to ensuring the economic competitiveness of the United States and the development of a globally competitive STEM workforce<br/><br/>This survey of Asian Americans will: 1) be contemporaneous with the 2016 General Social Survey (GSS) and American National Election Study (ANES), 2) replicate key questions from those surveys, and 3) build on the pioneering efforts of past surveys of Asian Americans. The project produces a dataset for public release in June 2017 through ICPSR (Inter-university Consortium for<br/>Political and Social Research) that will have widespread utility among scholars in social science disciplines as well for journalists and bloggers versed in social science data and trends. The survey will provide data to address questions related to immigrant incorporation, attitudes on economic inequality and race-relations, and civic and political engagement. In addition to providing comparisons within the Asian American racial category (samples of approximately 400 adults each among major national origin groups), it will include cross-racial comparisons using the same instrument and mode of interview (approximately 400 adults each among whites, Latinos, and African Americans).<br/><br/>A growing number of studies focus on Asian Americans. However, existing surveys tend to be limited to a small number of national origin groups or to a relatively specific geographic area. More general studies such as the GSS and ANES do not have the requisite sample size or language support to accurately capture the experiences and attitudes of Asian Americans. The primary innovation of the 2016 National Asian American Survey is to replicate questions on important general surveys, specifically the GSS and the ANES, with a large sample of Asian Americans in a well-designed study. With this commitment to question replication, the 2016 National Asian American Survey will allow researchers, for the first time, to compare Asian Americans to the U.S. public on key social and political measures, and to make important comparisons within the racial group.","crimson_battery","Building Social Science Data Infrastructure: The 2016 National Asian American Survey",
"1528705","Collaborative Research: Modeling Unobserved Heterogeneity in Network Formation","SES","SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/1/2015","8/26/2015","Janet Box-Steffensmeier","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Lee Walker","8/31/2017","$204,416.00 ","","steffensmeier.2@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331, 1333, 1371","","$0.00 ","General Summary<br/><br/>The statistical analysis of networks has become increasingly important in the social and behavioral sciences and has been applied to a diverse range of problems in recent years. Indeed, the National Science Foundation's agenda setting statement for the social sciences, ""Rebuilding the Mosaic,"" recognizes Network Science as one of four critical research frontiers. Yet, while the statistical analysis of networks continues to attract a great deal of attention from scholars and the broader public, the quantitative study of networks remains in the early stages of development. Only recently have the statistical theory and computational techniques been developed to rigorously analyze various types of networks. The central aim of the project is to develop a new model for identifying statistical effects on network formation that explicitly accounts for unobserved variation. <br/><br/>Technical Summary<br/><br/>The PIs develop an estimator that accurately captures unobserved heterogeneity in tie formation in network models. They do so by extending the widely applied Exponential Random Graph Model (ERGM) to include a frailty term that accounts for unmeasured, unobserved, or unimagined heterogeneity. Unaccounted heterogeneity is a significant issue in the study of social processes; thus, the inability to effectively model it is an important gap that limits the applicability of ERGMs in many areas of potential interest. In fact, one of the two major assumptions of the ERGM is that the model is correctly specified, and coefficient bias or model degeneracy may result from violations of this assumption. The PIs propose to extend the ERGM to account for this problem through the introduction of a frailty term, thereby creating a Frailty Exponential Random Graph Model (FERGM). In addition to defining the FERGM and providing Monte Carlo simulations to demonstrate the model properties and comparative benefits of the approach, the PIs apply the FERGM to substantive topics in the social and health sciences and provide related statistical software for others to do so as well. Advances in network modeling will be useful across scientific disciplines, including sociology, economics, statistics, computer science and behavioral health. The focus on social science applications will aid practitioners in public policy by allowing them to more accurately evaluate the importance of policy on economic and social outcomes. Finally, the project directly promotes teaching, training, and learning and broadens participation of underrepresented groups in scholarly activity.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Modeling Unobserved Heterogeneity in Network Formation",
"1637350","EAGER: Smart and Connected Communities: Reducing Friction in the L3 Connects Infrastructure: Embedding a recommender system into mobile apps to support real-time brokering","DRL","AISL","9/15/2016","9/13/2016","William Penuel","CO","University of Colorado at Boulder","Standard Grant","John Cherniavsky","8/31/2018","$189,988.00 ","Tamara Sumner, Nichole Pinkard","william.penuel@colorado.edu","3100 Marine Street, Room 481","Boulder","CO","3100 Marine Street, Room 481, Boulder, CO","803031058","3034926221","EHR","7259","7916, 8244","$0.00 ","This is an Early-concept Grant for Exploratory Research supporting research in Smart and Connected Communities. The research supported by the award is collaborative with research at DePaul University. The researchers are studying the use of technologies to enable communities to connect youth and youth organizations to effectively support diverse learning pathways for all students. These communities, the youth, the youth organizations, formal and informal education organizations, and civic organizations form a learning ecology. The DePaul University researchers will design and implement a smart community infrastructure in the City of Chicago to track real-time student participation in community STEM activities and to develop mobile applications for both students and adults. The smart community infrastructure will bring together information from a variety of sources that affect students' participation in community activities. These include geographic information (e.g., where the student lives, where the activities take place, the student transportation options, the school the student attends), student related information (e.g., the education and experience background of the student, the economic status of the student, students' schedules), and activity information (e.g., location of activity, requirements for participation). The University of Colorado researchers will take the lead on analyzing these data in terms of a community learning ecologies framework and will explore computational approaches (i.e., recommender systems, visualizations of learning opportunities) to improve youth exploration and uptake of interests and programs. These smart technologies are then used to reduce the friction in the learning connection infrastructure (called L3 for informal, formal, and virtual learning) to enable the student to access opportunities for participation in STEM activities that are most feasible and most appropriate for the student. Such a flexible computational approach is needed to support the necessary diversity of potential recommendations: new interests for youth to explore; specific programs based on interests, friends' activities, or geographic accessibility; or programs needed to ""level-up"" (develop deeper skills) and complete skills to enhance youths' learning portfolios. Although this information was always available, it was never integrated so it could be used to serve the community of both learners and the providers and to provide measurable student learning and participation outcomes.<br/><br/>The learning ecologies theoretical framework and supporting computational methods are a contribution to the state of the art in studying afterschool learning opportunities. While the concept of learning ecologies is not new, to date, no one has offered such a systematic and theoretically-grounded portfolio of measures for characterizing the health and resilience of STEM learning ecologies at multiple scales. The theoretical frameworks and concepts draw together multiple research and application domains: computer science, sociology of education, complexity science, and urban planning. The L3 Connects infrastructure itself represents an unprecedented opportunities for conducting ""living lab"" experiments to improve stakeholder experience of linking providers to a single network and linking youth to more expanded and varied opportunities. The University of Colorado team will employ three methods: mapping, modeling, and linking youth to STEM learning opportunities in school and out of school settings in a large urban city (Chicago). The recommender system will be embedded into youth and parent facing mobile apps, enabling the team to characterize the degree to which content-based, collaborative filtering, or constraint based recommendations influence youth actions. The project will result in two measurable outcomes of importance to key L3 stakeholder groups: a 10% increase in the number of providers (programs that are part of the infrastructure) in target neighborhoods and a 20% increase in the number of youth participating in programs.","mauve_battery","EAGER: Smart and Connected Communities: Reducing Friction in the L3 Connects Infrastructure: Embedding a recommender system into mobile apps to support real-time brokering",
"1514204","III: Medium: High-Dimensional Interaction Analysis in Bio-Data Sets","IIS","INFO INTEGRATION & INFORMATICS","8/15/2015","8/8/2016","Aidong Zhang","NY","SUNY at Buffalo","Standard Grant","Jun Huan","7/31/2018","$899,822.00 ","Jo Freudenheim, Alan Hutson, Murali Ramanathan","azhang@buffalo.edu","520 Lee Entrance","Amherst","NY","520 Lee Entrance, Amherst, NY","142282567","7166452634","CSE","7364","7364, 7924","$0.00 ","Discovering interactions between the attributes in a data set provides insight into the underlying structure of the data and explains the relationships between the attributes. This project develops multi-disciplinary approaches that integrate computer science, statistics, and epidemiology techniques to mine interaction relationships among attributes and phenotypes (traits or class labels) in biological data sets. Specifically, this project develops innovative and statistically sound methodologies for mining novel interactions within attributes or between attributes and phenotypes to help identify critical factors in biological applications. In particular, the novel analysis methods can enable the genetic and environmental interactions underlying a range of complex diseases to be delineated. The research activities of this project can also promote the integration of biology, computer science, and statistics, which is highly significant to many applications. <br/><br/>The project will formulate various metrics that enable efficient pruning and searching in the multi-dimensional combinatorial space for identifying significant interaction relationships. This enables highly effective approaches that build search-based trees or identify highly correlated subspaces to detect meaningful local interactions that may not be significant considering the whole data sets but are strongly interacted with traits on a subset of data. This enables comparison of data from multiple different groups such as based on age, race, or other properties. It is important to find both common and different interactions in different groups so that effective methods can be developed for targeted groups. The methods developed will detect complex interactions between attributes in multiple groups simultaneously by capturing both their commonalities and differences in joint matrix factorization or deep learning models. These approaches are remarkably powerful for biological applications, such as detecting gene-gene interactions and gene-environmental interactions that lead to breast cancer. The concept of interaction is also ubiquitous and important in many scientific disciplines ranging from economics, sociology and physics, to the pharmaceutical sciences. The novel approaches and analysis tools developed in this project are useful for finding out any interaction relationships between attributes associated with phenotype labels or without phenotype labels. These approaches and tools are general and are applicable to a variety of applications.","lime_battery","III: Medium: High-Dimensional Interaction Analysis in Bio-Data Sets",
"1319578","III: Small: Integrated Digital Event Archiving and Library (IDEAL)","IIS","INFO INTEGRATION & INFORMATICS","9/1/2013","5/26/2016","Edward Fox","VA","Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University","Continuing grant","Maria Zemankova","8/31/2017","$500,000.00 ","Jefferson Bailey, Kristine Hanna, Donald Shoemaker, Andrea Kavanaugh, Steven Sheetz","fox@vt.edu","Sponsored Programs 0170","BLACKSBURG","VA","Sponsored Programs 0170, BLACKSBURG, VA","240610001","5402315281","CSE","7364","7923, 7364","$0.00 ","The Integrated Digital Event Archive and Library (IDEAL) system addresses the need for combining the best of digital library and archive technologies in support of stakeholders who are remembering and/or studying important events. It extends the work at Virginia Tech on the Crisis, Tragedy, and Recovery network (see http://www.ctrnet.net) to handle government and community events, in addition to a range of significant natural or manmade disasters. It addresses needs of those interested in emergency preparedness/response, digital government, and the social sciences. It proves the effectiveness of the 5S (Societies, Scenarios, Spaces, Structures, Streams) approach to intelligent information systems by crawling and archiving events of broad interest. It leverages and extends the capabilities of the Internet Archive to develop spontaneous event collections that can be permanently archived as well as searched and accessed, and of the LucidWorks Big Data software that supports scalable indexing, analyzing, and accessing of very large collections. Through a new model-based approach to intelligent focused crawling, it improves the quality (e.g., accuracy, coverage, and elimination of noise) of collections of webpages so as to ensure comprehensiveness, balance, and low bias, as is needed for scholarly study of historically important events by social scientists. It incorporates a range of visualization capabilities in support of key stakeholder communities, including archivists, librarians, researchers, scholars, and the general public. IDEAL connects the processing of tweets and webpages, combining informal and formal media, to automatically detect important events, as well as to support building collections on chosen general or specific topics. It supports integration of multiple types and at multiple levels, including key models about the event it is crawling (event models), the sources of information about the event (source models), the mechanisms used for disseminating information about the event (publishing venue models), and the entities related to the event (society /organization models). Integrated services include topic identification, categorization (building upon special ontologies being devised), sentiment analysis, and visualization of data, information, and context.<br/><br/>The IDEAL website (http://www.eventsarchive.org) supports searching, browsing, analyzing, and visualizing of event collections (of both tweets and webpages), as well as access to project software, methods, findings, publications, and other results. Usage is encouraged of the integrated system along with a growing number of collections, as well as of particular tools such as for focused crawling, which should aid curators to avoid non-relevant content while including a broader range of sources, improving significantly upon current crawling and archiving methods. Important data and information on events of interest are saved rather than lost, helping preserve our history and culture, in support of public interest, education, policy making, historical analyses, and comparative studies. Students studying sociology, human-computer interaction, digital libraries, information retrieval, computational linguistics, multimedia, and hypertext are gaining experience and contributing in scholarly studies, algorithms, software, interfaces, and big data handling.","lime_atom","III: Small: Integrated Digital Event Archiving and Library (IDEAL)",
"1629670","Doctoral Dissertation Research in Economics: The Effect of Access on Beliefs","SES","ECONOMICS","7/1/2016","6/17/2016","Charles Sprenger","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Kwabena Gyimah-Brempong","6/30/2017","$26,583.00 ","Vinayak Alladi","csprenger@ucsd.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","SBE","1320","","$0.00 ","Although governments, academics and policy-makers agree about the large benefits of education in societal outcomes, investment in education amongst the poor remains low. One reason, cited by researchers in economics, is that poor people have low expectations about the value of education when compared to estimates from data. Another potential explanation is psychological. Work in sociology finds that poor families have more pessimistic outlooks on the future value of education due to obstacles like low quality schools, larger financial constraints and racial discrimination. Perhaps most striking, recent empirical studies find that providing poor people access to resources increases their expectations on the value of education, despite no information being provided about the value per se.<br/><br/>Building on these findings, one possible theory is that low expectations help individuals cope with low access to an investment. Rather than lamenting a small chance to make a potentially life-changing investment, individuals feel better by underestimating its value, a theory called ""the sour grapes effect"". The goal in this project is to utilize the economic tools of a laboratory setting to explore this effect, and the relationship between access and beliefs more broadly. The lab provides a clear methodological advantage as empirical studies to date suffer from likely confounds.<br/><br/>The intellectual merit of this proposal lies in attempting to study a real-world problem with a novel psychological intuition that can be framed using rigorous theory and investigated through experimental methodologies. The research agenda is grounded in the theory of decision-making under ambiguity and may document a new violation of (Subjective) Expected Utility theory.<br/><br/>The research agenda makes some important contributions and has potentially broader impacts. Exploring the access-based beliefs could increase our understanding of how perceived (not estimated) beliefs of the returns to education are formed, an important determinant of schooling decisions. Furthermore, access-based beliefs may be the source of a cycle of low access, and investment that traps people in poverty. Lastly, they would suggest a novel pathway for the efficacy of social programs that expand access to public goods, namely that optimistic beliefs may play an important role. Ultimately, research that furthers our knowledge on how subjective beliefs on the returns to investment are formed can help create better models of decision-making under uncertainty and inform policy-makers in a variety of contexts.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research in Economics: The Effect of Access on Beliefs",
"1151168","CAREER: Analysis of Prices, Informational Rigidities and Productivity Differences","SES","ECONOMICS","6/1/2012","9/3/2015","Yuriy Gorodnichenko","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Continuing grant","Kwabena Gyimah-Brempong","5/31/2017","$420,366.00 ","","ygorodni@econ.berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1320","1045, 9178","$0.00 ","This project is aimed to address three key questions in macroeconomics. <br/>The first question is, To what extent are prices inflexible, what is the best way to measure the degree of price stickiness, and what are the implications for macroeconomic dynamics and optimal policy design? This question is related to one of the central debates in macroeconomics, which is whether nominal shocks have significant real effects. While there is evidence that prices at the micro level could indeed be fixed for short periods of time, sales often interrupt fairly long intervals of otherwise stable prices. Specifically, temporary sales could be a form of price flexibility for firms that are unable to adjust their regular or ?reference? prices, i.e. prices that tend to remain fixed for prolonged periods of time. Thus, when firms want to lower prices, they do not have to change their regular prices. Instead, they introduce deeper and more frequent sales so that the effective price paid by consumers is lower than suggested by the regular price. In this scenario, the effective prices could be much more flexible and procyclical over the business cycle than regular prices and therefore the rationale for countercyclical policy could be considerably undermined. Likewise, consumers can change outlets to seek better prices and thus make prices actually paid in transactions more flexible than is implied by posted prices. The latter could be particularly important in e-commerce where search costs are minimal and consumers can easily switch outlets not only from one seller to another in response to economic conditions but also switch away from regular brick-and-mortar stores which typically charge higher prices for identical goods relative to online stores. This project will study cyclical properties of sales and outlet substitution as well as properties of prices in online markets which is an increasingly important segment in the retail industry. Apart from improving design of countercyclical policies, this project will also be informative for enhancing price indexes constructed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and other private and public agencies. For example, this project can provide guidelines on sampling techniques (e.g., sample discount stores and online markets more during downturns), types of collected data (e.g., use prices actually paid rather than posted prices; collect quantities), and aggregation (e.g., use expenditure weights potentially differentiated across types of stores rather than apply a uniform weight for a product category). <br/>The second question is, What is the role of information rigidities in determining the behavior of macroeconomic aggregates and individual economic agents? How economic agents form their expectations has long been one of the most fundamental questions in macroeconomics. Indeed, the abandonment of adaptive expectations in favor of rational expectations was one of the defining features in the rebuilding of macroeconomics starting in the 1970s and most modern macroeconomic models assume full-information rational expectations on the part of all agents. Recent events, however, have called into question the general validity of models analyzed under the assumption of full-information rational expectations. For example, the freezing of interbank lending markets in 2008 reflected in part uncertainty about the financial positions of other institutions, a feature at odds with the full-information assumption of modern macroeconomic models and the notion that prices incorporate all pertinent information. Coming to grips with such informational constraints will undoubtedly be a fundamental component of post-crisis macroeconomic models. While there has been some recent theoretical work focused on better understanding the frictions and limitations faced by economic agents in the acquisition and processing of information, this research has been hampered by a lack of robust empirical evidence that quantifies these concepts. This project will develop and use a general framework to document, classify and quantify the nature of information rigidities faced by different agents. This framework can not only be used to directly map models of informational imperfections to empirical counterparts but can also be readily applied to a variety of economic agents such as professional forecasters, consumers, firms, central banks, and financial markets. Since informational frictions can explain numerous features of the data which are difficult to reconcile with the common assumption of full-information, this project, by providing a robust set of stylized facts about informational rigidities, will lay the groundwork for a more empirically justified theory of information constraints. This will shed light on one of the most fundamental questions in economics, the nature of the expectations formation process, and will be directly applicable to a variety of fields in economics. The results of the project will be relevant to policy-makers for several reasons. First, the nature of the informational frictions has critical implications for welfare calculations and hence the design of optimal policy. By assessing which informational frictions are quantitatively important, this project will provide a key ingredient for policy analyses. Second, the project will formally investigate the interaction of informational frictions faced by different types of agents especially when one type of agents (e.g., the central bank) may have an informational advantage and thus policy changes may induces indirect effects on the economy through agents? learning about economic conditions from policy changes. Finally, the nature of informational frictions can impact how policy changes should be implemented. For example, whether policymakers should be opaque or transparent about the current and future course of actions crucially depends on how economic agents collect and process information. <br/>The third question is, What is the source of productivity and income differences across countries? It is widely perceived that the key conduit of economic growth and productivity enhancements is innovation that brings new goods and services to the economy as well as new ways to produce existing goods and services. Obviously, many factors such as quality of property rights, development of financial markets and ownership structure affect the intensity of innovation and a great deal of effort was put into studying these factors. However, it is surprising that although Max Weber and others have argued that culture played a fundamental role in explaining the wealth of nations and the literature on the economic effects of culture is growing fast, there has so far been little systematic work examining theoretically and empirically the effect of culture on innovation, productivity and development. This project is aimed to broadly explore sources of variation in productivity and innovation with an emphasis on cultural differences. Specifically, the project will investigate how culture affects individual choices to deviate from norms and try new technologies and goods, how culture influences allocation of resources and specialization in trade, how culture contributes to political constraints on economic behavior and provision of public goods. The project will also study co-evolution of genes and cultural/economic outcomes over long periods of time. The results of this project will be instrumental in understanding cultural constraints and thus will help to enhance developmental policies by building on existing cultures and their strengths instead of transposing policies that are not adequate to a given cultural environment. Apart from providing economists with new insights into key questions about development and its interplay with culture, this project is meant to bridge economics to other disciplines such as sociology, political science, anthropology, psychology, and genetics.","crimson_atom","CAREER: Analysis of Prices, Informational Rigidities and Productivity Differences",
"1344238","INSPIRE Track 1: Advancing groundwater restoration through qualitative analysis: What practitioners and stakeholders care about and why it matters","CBET","SPECIAL STUDIES AND ANALYSES, ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY, INSPIRE","9/1/2013","8/8/2016","Alan Rabideau","NY","SUNY at Buffalo","Continuing grant","Bruce K. Hamilton","8/31/2017","$872,326.00 ","Michael Frisch, Kenneth Shockley, Erin Robinson","rabideau@buffalo.edu","520 Lee Entrance","Amherst","NY","520 Lee Entrance, Amherst, NY","142282567","7166452634","ENG","1385, 7643, 8078","043Z, 145E, 8653","$0.00 ","1344238 (Rabideau). This INSPIRE award is partially funded by the NSF Engineering Directorate (ENG) and the NSF Directorate for Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences (SBE). This project is motivated by the long-standing prevalence of inactive waste sites resistant to the restoration of contaminated soil and groundwater. Recently, the National Research Council (NRC, 2012) identified thousands of complex sites, ""complex"" referring to a collection of physical, chemical, and regulatory factors that inhibit cleanup. Because the NRC committee was unable to identify potential technological breakthroughs, its report focused on the need for long-term management (LTM) of these sites, which will require many decades of cooperation between regulatory agencies, responsible parties, and host communities. While attention to LTM represents a progressive and positive development in the culture of groundwater restoration (GR), some compelling alternatives to LTM have not been fully evaluated, including: (1) a reinvigorated research agenda to develop cost-effective cleanup technologies, and (2) a paradigm shift from current practices (which emphasize technical analysis of health/cost tradeoffs) to a more holistic decision process informed by local stakeholder values and the core ideals of adaptive management, sustainability, environmental justice, and intergenerational equity. The INSPIRE team brings together scholars from environmental engineering, philosophy, sociology, and oral history to address important questions raised by the proposed shift to LTM: (1) to what extent has inadequate engineering implementation of remedial technologies contributed to failures to achieve cleanup targets (in contrast to the presumed inherent challenges of contaminated sites), (2) has the dominant risk-versus-cost paradigm adequately engaged the environmental values held by practitioners and stakeholders (including sustainability), (3) how has GR practice and policy development been shaped by group identify and differences in core values and beliefs among government regulators, responsible parties, technical professionals, citizens, and academic researchers, and (4) how should the concerns of community residents, who will be most affected by the transition to LTM, be appropriately engaged? Recognizing that the above questions are not easily addressed by disciplinary or ""expert panel"" research, this three-year INSPIRE project will emphasize the qualitative analysis of recorded audio data (RAD), collecting and analyzing 100-200 hours of RAD from focus groups, workshop dialogues, oral history testimonies, and phone interviews with a diverse community of professional, government, academic and citizen practitioners and stakeholders. Open-ended interviews are a well-established and appropriate vehicle to engage, study, and learn from the local, often undocumented, knowledge of the diverse communities that engage in complex projects such as GR. Using new database tools for thematically mapping anecdotal interviews as meaning-dense RAD, analytic methods such as frame analysis, applied collaboratively by the interdisciplinary team, will support the development of new decision paradigms for more effectively managing GR and complex waste sites. Disseminated results will include journal articles, practitioner-oriented workshops, and new tools to support collaborative scholarship. The project will advance the field of GR by critically examining the pervasive assumption that restoration to health-based levels is technological infeasible for most sites, and by assessing alternative paradigms such as reinvigorated basic research, adaptive management, and/or sustainability analysis. Two doctoral, one MS, and several undergraduate students will receive cutting-edge training in cross-disciplinary research. Furthermore, the experience of collaborative qualitative analysis of RAD data (by the entire research team working together) will constitute a new and potentially transformative model for research that fully integrates science, engineering, ethics, and policy.","golden_atom","INSPIRE Track 1: Advancing groundwater restoration through qualitative analysis: What practitioners and stakeholders care about and why it matters",
"1637189","RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE--A resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments","SMA","NSF Public Access Initiative, Data Infrastructure","9/15/2016","9/8/2016","Keith Kintigh","AZ","Arizona State University","Standard Grant","William J. Badecker","2/29/2020","$200,842.00 ","Ann Kinzig","kintigh@asu.edu","ORSPA","TEMPE","AZ","ORSPA, TEMPE, AZ","852816011","4809655479","SBE","7414, 8294","7433","$0.00 ","This project will develop SKOPE (Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments), a freely available Web site that will provide easy access to state-of-the-art measurements and reconstructions of long-term environmental data, such as rainfall, temperature, plant and animal distributions, streamflow, and soils. Given a time period and a location, it will display the data graphically and will permit users to download the original high-resolution environmental data. By enabling scholars to easily discover, explore, visualize, and synthesize knowledge of environmental stability and change over centuries or millennia, SKOPE will empower reproducible research on the effects of climatic variation on human societies and the substantial impacts of humans on ancient and modern environments. It will also facilitate ongoing improvement of paleoenvironmental reconstructions. SKOPE will transform vast amounts of prior data collection, modeling, and research into usable environmental knowledge, enhancing the infrastructure of scientific research in such diverse disciplines as agronomy, anthropology, archaeology, ecology, economics, geography, political science, sociology, and sustainability. SKOPE will also make available publicly funded paleoenvironmental data and models to users in industry and government. For example, planners will be able to use SKOPE?s long-term environmental reconstructions to investigate vulnerabilities in infrastructure not revealed by historical experience (for example, streamflow or rainfall regimes outside the ranges of those documented historically). Students will have free access to high-quality environmental scenarios in which to situate their studies. Members of the general public will be able to see how ancient environments differed from those of today. Expanding the community able to obtain and use paleoenvironmental information will increase public scientific literacy and public engagement with science and technology.<br/><br/>Recent research has demonstrated that investigations of contemporary societal problems can benefit from the use of long-term environmental data and from comparisons with cases in which the interactions of human societies with their environments is well-documented over centuries. By providing easy access to time- and place-specific long-term environmental data, this project seeks to facilitate those efforts. SKOPE addresses two critical challenges to contemporary science: increasing access to publicly funded research; and ensuring that scientific results are transparent and reproducible. SKOPE will enable users to easily discover, download, visualize, and explore many sources of paleoenvironmental data that resulted from publicly funded research that are now difficult (at best) to find and use. SKOPE will also provide robust support for reproducible scientific research. Datasets provided by SKOPE will be accompanied by a systematic, comprehensible record of their origin and computational derivation, giving researchers an unprecedented ability to understand how the data were obtained.","crimson_battery","RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE--A resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments",
"1637171","RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE--A resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments","SMA","NSF Public Access Initiative, Data Infrastructure","9/15/2016","9/8/2016","Timothy Kohler","WA","Washington State University","Standard Grant","William J. Badecker","2/29/2020","$254,189.00 ","R. Kyle Bocinsky","tako@wsu.edu","280 Lighty","PULLMAN","WA","280 Lighty, PULLMAN, WA","991641060","5093359661","SBE","7414, 8294","7433","$0.00 ","This project will develop SKOPE (Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments), a freely available Web site that will provide easy access to state-of-the-art measurements and reconstructions of long-term environmental data, such as rainfall, temperature, plant and animal distributions, streamflow, and soils. Given a time period and a location, it will display the data graphically and will permit users to download the original high-resolution environmental data. By enabling scholars to easily discover, explore, visualize, and synthesize knowledge of environmental stability and change over centuries or millennia, SKOPE will empower reproducible research on the effects of climatic variation on human societies and the substantial impacts of humans on ancient and modern environments. It will also facilitate ongoing improvement of paleoenvironmental reconstructions. SKOPE will transform vast amounts of prior data collection, modeling, and research into usable environmental knowledge, enhancing the infrastructure of scientific research in such diverse disciplines as agronomy, anthropology, archaeology, ecology, economics, geography, political science, sociology, and sustainability. SKOPE will also make available publicly funded paleoenvironmental data and models to users in industry and government. For example, planners will be able to use SKOPE?s long-term environmental reconstructions to investigate vulnerabilities in infrastructure not revealed by historical experience (for example, streamflow or rainfall regimes outside the ranges of those documented historically). Students will have free access to high-quality environmental scenarios in which to situate their studies. Members of the general public will be able to see how ancient environments differed from those of today. Expanding the community able to obtain and use paleoenvironmental information will increase public scientific literacy and public engagement with science and technology.<br/><br/>Recent research has demonstrated that investigations of contemporary societal problems can benefit from the use of long-term environmental data and from comparisons with cases in which the interactions of human societies with their environments is well-documented over centuries. By providing easy access to time- and place-specific long-term environmental data, this project seeks to facilitate those efforts. SKOPE addresses two critical challenges to contemporary science: increasing access to publicly funded research; and ensuring that scientific results are transparent and reproducible. SKOPE will enable users to easily discover, download, visualize, and explore many sources of paleoenvironmental data that resulted from publicly funded research that are now difficult (at best) to find and use. SKOPE will also provide robust support for reproducible scientific research. Datasets provided by SKOPE will be accompanied by a systematic, comprehensible record of their origin and computational derivation, giving researchers an unprecedented ability to understand how the data were obtained.","crimson_battery","RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE--A resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments",
"1637155","RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE--A resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments","SMA","NSF Public Access Initiative, Data Infrastructure","9/15/2016","9/8/2016","Bertram Ludaescher","IL","University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign","Standard Grant","William J. Badecker","2/29/2020","$884,627.00 ","Shaowen Wang, Timothy McPhillips","ludaesch@illinois.edu","SUITE A","CHAMPAIGN","IL","SUITE A, CHAMPAIGN, IL","618207473","2173332187","SBE","7414, 8294","7433","$0.00 ","This project will develop SKOPE (Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments), a freely available Web site that will provide easy access to state-of-the-art measurements and reconstructions of long-term environmental data, such as rainfall, temperature, plant and animal distributions, streamflow, and soils. Given a time period and a location, it will display the data graphically and will permit users to download the original high-resolution environmental data. By enabling scholars to easily discover, explore, visualize, and synthesize knowledge of environmental stability and change over centuries or millennia, SKOPE will empower reproducible research on the effects of climatic variation on human societies and the substantial impacts of humans on ancient and modern environments. It will also facilitate ongoing improvement of paleoenvironmental reconstructions. SKOPE will transform vast amounts of prior data collection, modeling, and research into usable environmental knowledge, enhancing the infrastructure of scientific research in such diverse disciplines as agronomy, anthropology, archaeology, ecology, economics, geography, political science, sociology, and sustainability. SKOPE will also make available publicly funded paleoenvironmental data and models to users in industry and government. For example, planners will be able to use SKOPE?s long-term environmental reconstructions to investigate vulnerabilities in infrastructure not revealed by historical experience (for example, streamflow or rainfall regimes outside the ranges of those documented historically). Students will have free access to high-quality environmental scenarios in which to situate their studies. Members of the general public will be able to see how ancient environments differed from those of today. Expanding the community able to obtain and use paleoenvironmental information will increase public scientific literacy and public engagement with science and technology.<br/><br/>Recent research has demonstrated that investigations of contemporary societal problems can benefit from the use of long-term environmental data and from comparisons with cases in which the interactions of human societies with their environments is well-documented over centuries. By providing easy access to time- and place-specific long-term environmental data, this project seeks to facilitate those efforts. SKOPE addresses two critical challenges to contemporary science: increasing access to publicly funded research; and ensuring that scientific results are transparent and reproducible. SKOPE will enable users to easily discover, download, visualize, and explore many sources of paleoenvironmental data that resulted from publicly funded research that are now difficult (at best) to find and use. SKOPE will also provide robust support for reproducible scientific research. Datasets provided by SKOPE will be accompanied by a systematic, comprehensible record of their origin and computational derivation, giving researchers an unprecedented ability to understand how the data were obtained.","crimson_battery","RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE--A resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments",
"1140000","RCN-SEES: Sustainable Manufacturing Advances in Research and Technology (SMART) Coordination Network","CBET","OFFICE OF MULTIDISCIPLINARY AC, PROJECTS, CYBERINFRASTRUCTURE, ENG INTERDISC RES (IDR), CR-Water Sustainability & Clim","1/1/2012","4/11/2014","Yinlun Huang","TX","Cache Corporation","Standard Grant","Bruce K. Hamilton","9/30/2017","$721,800.00 ","Mario Eden, Cliff Davidson, Mahmoud El-Halwagi, Thomas Edgar","yhuang@wayne.edu","P.O.Box 7939","Austin","TX","P.O.Box 7939, Austin, TX","787137939","5124717445","ENG","1253, 1978, 7231, 7951, 7977","8060, 8650, 9146, 9223","$0.00 ","1140000 (Huang). This award is funded under NSF's Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability (SEES) activities, which aim to address challenges of creating a sustainable world. U.S. manufacturing, a key component of national economic development and prosperity, has been greatly challenged by competitive trends over the past decade, as global manufacturing competition has begun to shift towards fast implementation, just-in-time model-based manufacturing, frequent product transitions, and shifting of technical personnel to meet those changing needs. Further burdens are being placed on all industries owing to uncertain energy prices and possible greenhouse gas constraints. Revitalization of U.S. manufacturing is of utmost importance in the national economy. In academia, engineering sustainability, advanced manufacturing theory, alternative energy and biofuels have become very active but relatively disconnected research areas. Research coordination in the academic community and its networking with industries are insufficient and lack depth. To bridge the gap between the academic knowledge discovery and industrial technology innovation for sustainable manufacturing, our multidisciplinary team proposes to create an interdisciplinary, international research coordination network to promote Sustainable Manufacturing Advances in Research and Technology (SMART). SMART reflects the theme of the joint effort among a number of leading academic laboratories, centers, non-government organizations, and major manufacturing industries. During this project, the team will (1) conduct comprehensive and in-depth review of frontier research and technological development for sustainable manufacturing, (2) define the roadmap towards manufacturing sustainability and identify the bottlenecks in a number of focused research areas via several workshops, (3) coordinate research through sharing knowledge, resources, software, and results, (4) establish partnerships with industrial groups to expedite technology introduction, and (5) conduct education and outreach to a wide range of stakeholders. The SMART coordination network (CN) will be further strengthened through collaborating with eight leading research laboratories in seven other countries. Sustainable manufacturing research involves a wide spectrum of areas and disciplines, such as advanced manufacturing, sustainability assessment and decision making, product and process systems engineering, energy and environmental engineering, multiscale complex systems science and engineering, information technology, economics and sociology. The SMART CN will support a new paradigm for manufacturing sustainability and aggregate concerted efforts from multiple research groups with complementary expertise to transform the knowledge base of manufacturing sustainability, and develop a consensus roadmap for future efforts. It is anticipated that success in this endeavor will have a significant impact on industrial efforts in developing sustainable manufacturing technologies. The SMART CN will serve as a starting point for further increasing the diversity of the next generation of researchers, especially under-represented groups, and will have a hub-type website to serve the different communities. The project will also generate a number of case study educational modules for sustainable engineering education that should be widely adoptable for undergraduate/graduate education and professional training in industries.","golden_battery","RCN-SEES: Sustainable Manufacturing Advances in Research and Technology (SMART) Coordination Network",
"1258507","IGERT-CIF21: Interdisciplinary Graduate Education Research and Training in Network Science","DGE","CIF21-IGERT","8/15/2013","8/28/2014","Ambuj Singh","CA","University of California-Santa Barbara","Standard Grant","Laura Regassa","7/31/2018","$2,799,907.00 ","John Mohr, Subhash Suri, Divyakant Agrawal, Stephen Proulx","ambuj@cs.ucsb.edu","Office of Research","SANTA BARBARA","CA","Office of Research, SANTA BARBARA, CA","931062050","8058934188","EHR","8090","1335, 7433, 9179, SMET","$0.00 ","This Integrative Graduate Education and Research Traineeship (IGERT) award provides Ph.D. students at the University of California at Santa Barbara with the skills to design more efficient and robust empirical networks based on their analyses of large data sets derived from existing networks. By training students to examine multiple types of networks, such as genetic, economic, and social networks, this program aims to advance the field of Network Science. <br/><br/>Intellectual Merit: This traineeship program is a collaboration among seven graduate departments (Computer Science, Communication, Ecology, Evolution & Marine Biology, Electrical & Computer Engineering, Geography, Mechanical Engineering, and Sociology), which will enable trainees to learn computational methods to engineer, control, measure, and predict the dynamics of large networks. Through the program?s Network Science Laboratory, trainees will participate in team-based modules and obtain hands-on experience with software, empirical data sets, and interdisciplinary science. Additionally, trainees will participate in weekly seminars, summer internships, workshops, and an innovation program focused on problem solving and creative thinking.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts: By providing students with interdisciplinary training in Network Science, this program will advance the emerging field of Network Science and will serve as a model for similar academic programs across the nation. Moreover, this program aims to recruit, retain, and mentor 70% women and underrepresented minority students from University of California at Santa Barbara undergraduates as well as students from four partner institutions: California State University at San Bernardino, California State University at Los Angeles, University of California at Merced, and University of New Mexico, all of which are Hispanic Serving Institutions. <br/><br/>IGERT is an NSF-wide program intended to meet the challenges of educating U.S. Ph.D. scientists and engineers with the interdisciplinary background, deep knowledge in a chosen discipline, and the technical, professional, and personal skills needed for the career demands of the future. The program is intended to establish new models for graduate education and training in a fertile environment for collaborative research that transcends traditional disciplinary boundaries, and to engage students in understanding the processes by which research is translated to innovations for societal benefit.","mauve_battery","IGERT-CIF21: Interdisciplinary Graduate Education Research and Training in Network Science",
"1348789","Peer influences on adolescents' self-concept, achievement, and future aspirations in science and mathematics: Does student gender and race matter?","HRD","SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY, RES ON GENDER IN SCI & ENGINE, Core R&D Programs","6/1/2014","9/14/2015","Nilanjana Dasgupta","MA","University of Massachusetts Amherst","Standard Grant","Jolene K. Jesse","5/31/2019","$2,039,819.00 ","Catherine Riegle-Crumb","dasgupta@psych.umass.edu","Research Administration Building","AMHERST","MA","Research Administration Building, AMHERST, MA","10039242","4135450698","EHR","1332, 1544, 7980","1332, 8050, 8212","$0.00 ","In the past thirty years a national debate has been brewing about the scarcity of women and racial/ethnic minorities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), and its grave implications for the American workforce in the 21st century. From middle school through college, girls and women have performed less well on standardized tests in science and mathematics than their male peers and express less confidence and aspirations in these fields. Similar findings emerge for Black and Latino students in terms of STEM self-concept and aspirations. Recently, the gender gap in science and math performance has been closing but the gap in STEM self-concept and aspirations remains large. What drives these gender and race disparities in STEM? Many girls and students of color lose interest in STEM before college partly because the stereotype of the successful student in STEM is male, White or Asian, and nerdy. Girls are particularly affected by STEM stereotypes because of their incompatibility with gender role expectations. The proposed research in this grant focuses on solutions to the leaky pipeline by investigating peer influences and classroom dynamics that protect adolescent girls from STEM stereotypes using the Stereotype Inoculation Model. This present work concentrates on contact with other girl peers in science and math classrooms as ""social vaccines"" who inoculate adolescent girls' mind against negative stereotypes. Four objectives guide this work: (1) To examine whether learning STEM with all-girl peers vs. mixed-sex peers in middle school enhances girls' engagement in STEM. (2) To assess whether the presence of all-girl peers has similar effects on Black and Hispanic girls (who face gender and racial stereotypes in STEM) compared to White girls (who face gender but not racial stereotypes). (3) To identify features of classroom peer dynamics that predict girls' STEM outcomes and test whether they occur differentially in all-female vs. mixed-sex classes. (4) To test if peer dynamics identified as beneficial produce the same positive outcomes for girls when put in action in mixed-sex classes. This research will be conducted by Nilanjana Dasgupta, Principal Investigator at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, in partnership with Catherine Riegle-Crumb, Co-Investigator at the University of Texas at Austin, and a diverse team of middle schools spread across the nation.<br/><br/>Two studies are proposed. Study 1 provides an in-depth analysis of peer dynamics in math and science classrooms in middle school and tests the extent to which they predict student outcomes in STEM. Using a longitudinal quasi-experimental design this study will compare girls in single-sex classes in science and math with girls and boys in coed classes and follow their progress across one year in middle school. Hierarchical regression and propensity score analysis will be the primary data analytic technique. The goal is to identify peer dynamics in class, measure whether they occur differentially in all-girls classes vs. mixed-sex classes, and test the extent to which they predict girls' STEM outcomes. Once the most beneficial peer dynamics are identified, Study 2 will test whether these, when put in action in mixed-sex classrooms, produce the same benefits for girls in coed classes using a large nationally representative sample of American 8th graders from the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study, 2007 (TIMSS). TIMSS 2007 contains sufficient classroom-level information to estimate within-class peer dynamics and to test their relation to student outcomes. Hierarchical linear modeling will be the data analytic technique. Our goal is to look for converging and complementary evidence using multiple methods across two studies making it a powerful package.<br/><br/>The contribution of the proposed research is to identify specific types of peer influences and classroom dynamics in math and science classes that get girls hooked on STEM, increase their confidence, and motivate them to aspire higher. Another contribution is to examine whether these peer dynamics work similarly or differently for African American and Latina girls compared to their White peers. An important intended outcome is to translate the research findings into a set of concrete classroom practices, interventions, and learning methods that will be disseminated broadly to K-12 teachers, principals, education policy professionals, and other stakeholders in order to enhance STEM teaching practices and attract, retain, and advance more girls and students of color in STEM. Many of the classroom practices, interventions, and learning methods that emerge from this project are likely to generalize beyond K-12 classrooms to benefit women in college STEM classes. Thus, the dissemination plan for the proposed research will include STEM faculty, students, department chairs and deans in higher education institutions as well, to impact recruitment and retention of diverse groups of women in college. Another intended outcome of this research is to integrate knowledge across multiple disciplines (psychology, education, sociology) and generate new insights in the science of broadening participation by examining interactions among institutional (or macro) factors, classroom (or meso) factors, and individual (or micro) factors that influence adolescents? STEM aspirations.","mauve_battery","Peer influences on adolescents' self-concept, achievement, and future aspirations in science and mathematics: Does student gender and race matter?",
"1555460","Collaborative Research: An Organizational Approach to State Repression","SES","POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/1/2015","8/26/2015","Christian Davenport","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Continuing grant","Timothy Nokken","8/31/2017","$208,603.00 ","","cdavenpt@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","1371","9179","$0.00 ","General Summary <br/><br/>This project seeks to improve our understanding of state repression, human rights violation and the circumstances involved with their use. For nearly 50 years, research in political science and sociology has attempted to understand why governments repress their citizens. Despite these efforts little is known about the relationship between those who order repressive acts (""principals"") and the individuals committing such activities (""agents""). The research draws together different approaches in the literature to develop an encompassing theory of repressive organizations. The PIs generate new data on human rights violations, using Northern Ireland as the case of interest. The PIs test theoretical predictions regarding when and where repression can be expected as well as how it may be contained. This study has implications for understanding and ultimately preventing human rights violations within the United States and around the world. <br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>To account for variation in the use of repression across time and space, the PIs develop a theory focusing on three factors: how principals and agents interpret challenger threats; how event reporting determines the information available to principals and their agents; and how the repressive apparatus is organized. They examine highly disaggregated data on threat, reporting, organization, and repression across space, time, and organizational unit. In particular, the PIs collect new micro-level event data on the repressive activity of the United Kingdom and Northern Irish governments that took place from 1968 through 1998. This dataset uses British Army files from the Brigade, Battalion and British Cabinet levels to determine the degree of knowledge and reporting across these levels and to assess the role of principals and agents in this conflict across time (by day), space (by neighborhood) and actor (by battalion).","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: An Organizational Approach to State Repression",
"1203234","GSE/RES Beyond the Deficit Model: Gender Schemas, Computing, Preferences, and IT Careeer Choices","HRD","RES ON GENDER IN SCI & ENGINE","7/1/2011","3/3/2016","Zeynep Tufekci","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Jolene K. Jesse","9/30/2016","$497,504.00 ","Sandra Hughes-Haskell","zeynep@unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","EHR","1544","9178, SMET","$0.00 ","Intellectual Merit: This mixed-method study will investigate how different aspects of computing are embedded within masculine and feminine gender schemas, and how this embedding interacts with students' perceptions of these aspects, as well as with course-taking and career intentions. Computing differs from other STEM fields in that it is associated with a pervasive everyday object which people encounter from an early age. The computer, moreover, incorporates a complex set of possible practices which are deeply entangled with gender schemas. For example, interest in ""looking under the hood"" and approaching an artifact as interesting per se, as if it were a toy, is associated with masculinity in Western cultures, whereas using objects as a tool within a social context, with attention to social rewards, is associated with femininity. This toy vs. tool duality may manifest in computing with boys showing interest in fixing or hacking the computer, and with girls being attracted to blogs and social networking. It is these dualities, and the specific uses of computing associated with them, that maintain relatively stable gender associations. While boys and girls both use computers, the modalities of computer use that continue to be associated with computer courses, majors and careers appear to be embedded within a masculine cultural schema. Thus, everyday use can equalize across genders while career-oriented attitudes and behaviors see an increasing gender disparity. This research begins with a qualitative exploration and then develops theoretically based, updated scales which measure how current computing practices of middle school students are lived and gendered. These new measures will be used in a comprehensive survey to be administered to 2,000 students in the Howard and Prince George's County, Maryland, public schools. The study incorporates two potentially transformative concepts: recognition of the importance of the cultural context of computing and development of updated measures which operationalize theoretical concepts that have not been quantitatively explored in this context. The research also moves away from a ""deficit model"" where girls' lack of enthusiasm is seen as a result of deficiencies in girls, and, focus on why computing majors are failing to attract girls. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: The findings and the new measures will help educators and researchers understand what girls find unattractive about computer courses and occupations. This is important for design and implementation of computer science curricula in high schools and for efforts to increase inclusive practices in computing majors and professions. The findings will also provide guidelines for designing curricula in high school that are attractive to girls as well as boys, and for publicizing aspects of computing jobs that are not strictly associated with masculine gender schemas. A diverse group of undergraduate and graduate students will develop research skills and an understanding of opportunities in higher education. UMBC's partnership with school districts will be enhanced. Middle school students will be exposed to research and a diverse group of researchers. Findings will be disseminated broadly, across sociology, education and IT disciplines and to educators as well as parents.","mauve_battery","GSE/RES Beyond the Deficit Model: Gender Schemas, Computing, Preferences, and IT Careeer Choices",
"1545362","NRT-DESE: UrbComp: Data Science for Modeling, Understanding, and Advancing Urban Populations","DGE","NSF Research Traineeship (NRT)","9/1/2015","8/13/2015","Naren Ramakrishnan","VA","Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University","Standard Grant","Laura Regassa","8/31/2020","$2,999,328.00 ","Leanna House, Mark Embree, Layne Watson, Achla Marathe","naren@cs.vt.edu","Sponsored Programs 0170","BLACKSBURG","VA","Sponsored Programs 0170, BLACKSBURG, VA","240610001","5402315281","EHR","1997","7433","$0.00 ","NRT-DESE: UrbComp: Data Science for Modeling, Understanding, and Advancing Urban Populations<br/><br/>By the year 2030, six out of every ten people in the world are projected to live in a city. To support the continuing influx of citizens, cities must be prepared to handle large-scale issues concerning urban populations, such as public health, sustainable use of limited energy resources, emergency preparedness, and societal stability. ""Big data"" methods hold great promise in addressing such issues because a great amount of operational data is being gathered as our cities become more wired and networked. This NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) award to Virginia Tech will emphasize data-enabled science and engineering education and collaboration across a range of fields to prepare doctoral students to become interdisciplinary data scientists who can help realize the promises of unprecedented urbanization. The traineeship anticipates training up to sixty (60) doctoral students, including eighteen (18) funded students, which will contribute to the United States? workforce and thus support our national competitiveness.<br/><br/>Trainees will pursue a PhD in one of eight home departments: computer science, mathematics, statistics, electrical and computer engineering, population health sciences, urban affairs and planning, civil and environmental engineering, and sociology. Specific educational innovations will include: i) a ?tapestry? curriculum to support early weaving of interdisciplinary issues, ii) emphasis on ethical and societal issues for responsible data science, iii) community building through interdisciplinary project teams and data analytics competitions, and iv) effective communication skills to facilitate interactions with a broad range of urban city professionals, i.e., the end consumers of data science. Trainees will learn how to model cities, develop large-scale statistical models, and use data mining and visualization technologies to pose and answer questions. Trainees will use Virginia Tech?s Urban Living Laboratory to enable collaborations with regional industries, local city governments (Arlington, VA), and local health departments (Virginia Department of Health) via internships, practicums, data challenges, and hackathons. The project will actively recruit a diverse cadre of students to tackle this timely challenge of urban computational modeling. The training model will be evaluated using a mixed method (quantitative and qualitative) approach and target five focus areas (students, community, research, program, scalability and sustainability).<br/><br/>The NSF Research Traineeship (NRT) Program is designed to encourage the development and implementation of bold, new, potentially transformative, and scalable models for STEM graduate education training. The Traineeship Track is dedicated to effective training of STEM graduate students in high priority interdisciplinary research areas, through the comprehensive traineeship model that is innovative, evidence-based, and aligned with changing workforce and research needs.","mauve_battery","NRT-DESE: UrbComp: Data Science for Modeling, Understanding, and Advancing Urban Populations",
"1337033","SusChEM: Collaborative Research: A Multi-Scale Environmental and Kinetics Study on the Pyrolysis of Sustainable Biomass Feedstock","CBET","ENERGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY","9/1/2013","4/14/2016","Joseph Biernacki","TN","Tennessee Technological University","Standard Grant","Gregory Rorrer","8/31/2017","$441,403.00 ","Scott Northrup, Lachelle Norris","jbiernacki@tntech.edu","Dixie Avenue","Cookeville","TN","Dixie Avenue, Cookeville, TN","385050001","9313723374","ENG","7644","002E, 8248, 9150, 9251","$0.00 ","PI: Biernacki, Joseph / Ley, M. Tyler<br/>Proposal Number: 1337033 /1336445<br/>Institution: Tennessee Technological University/ Oklahoma State University<br/>Title: Collaborative Research: A Multi-Scale Environmental and Kinetics Study on the Pyrolysis of Sustainable Biomass Feedstock<br/><br/>A multi-scale, interdisciplinary study on the kinetics and socio-economic broader impacts of biomass pyrolysis is proposed. This research will bring together five disciplines; Chemical and Civil Engineering, Chemistry, Sociology and Agriculture. Most experimental techniques focus on meso-scale (mg) or larger quantities of raw material and mostly ignore external and internal transport conditions of the sample. The PIs propose a unique experimental technique and to introduce a Multiple Variable Control Volume Reactor (MVCVR) concept. In combination with technology for producing individual micro-spheres of biomass, the PIs propose to utilize the MVCVR to independently control the particle-related (intra-particle) and homogenous- related (extra-particle) transport phenomena and associated reactions, thereby making it possible to independently observe the two processes. A series of experiments are proposed wherein model compounds (e.g. levoglucosan and other carbohydrates), separated components (i.e. cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin) and whole biomass are studied in an effort to understand the extent to which pyrolysis occurs within condensed phase intermediates and the homogeneous gas phase. The PIs also propose to introduce a new multi-scale modeling platform based on kinetic cellular automaton (KCA) and to demonstrate the applicability of this robust modeling strategy for simulating microstructure evolution in pyrolyzing biomass. Molecular-scale computational strategies will be used in parallel to supplement experiments and validate mechanistic hypotheses for up-scaling to KCA.<br/><br/>The data collected in this research will contribute to the scientific and engineering advancements currently being sought globally for the expanding biofuels industry and development of associated technology for direct thermochemical conversion of biomass-to-liquid fuels (BTL) and chemicals. Such will be elements of tomorrow?s integrated biorefineries (biochemical and thermochemical conversion under one roof) currently at the pilot and demonstration stages. For this reason the proposed work will focus on pyrolysis of whole biomass from crops with significantly reduced agricultural input requirements and residues, so as not to compete with agriculturally demanding food crops, such as corn and oilseeds.<br/><br/>The PIs will integrate elements of socio-economics and to provide a unique PhD experience that will greatly broaden the impact of this effort. The PIs also will include undergraduates as an integral part of the research team along the critical path. A major goal of the project is to communicate with, and gather information from, farming communities in central Tennessee. This element of the proposed research focuses on documenting and understanding the perceptions of the farming community regarding the possibility of allocating local farmland for growing energy crops. Information such as: amount of local farming land, common farming practices in terms of tillage, type of crops grown, amount of crop residues, and whether farmers are willing to grow dedicated energy crops (e.g., switchgrass), use their poor-quality crops for energy conversion, or whether they are willing to participate at all, will be gathered. The broader impacts of such an activity, while regionally-specific, are fundamental for the overall success of a sustainable biofuels industry. For the transition from a fossil resource- to a bio resource-based economy to happen, a well-informed and educated public is critical. Biopyrolysis-based fuels and chemicals research provides many unique opportunities for vertically integrated educational activities.","golden_battery","SusChEM: Collaborative Research: A Multi-Scale Environmental and Kinetics Study on the Pyrolysis of Sustainable Biomass Feedstock",
"1535399","Collaborative Research: STEM Training, Employment in Industry, and Entrepreneurship","DGE","Core R&D Programs","9/15/2015","3/29/2016","Bruce Weinberg","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Earnestine P. Easter","8/31/2019","$1,558,680.00 ","Joshua Hawley","weinberg.27@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","EHR","7980","8816, 9251","$0.00 ","Ohio State University and the University of Michigan are investigating factors that affect graduate student pathways to non-academic careers. The interdisciplinary research team examines two research questions: (1) What are the pathways that graduate students take into non-academic careers? and (2) What is the role of their training environments, including faculty sponsors and networks, in guiding those pathways? To investigate these questions, the researchers will develop a data infrastructure that links the STAR METRICS data to the Survey of Earned Doctorates/Survey of Doctoral Recipients and the Census Bureau Business Register to measure the likelihood that a graduate student would enter a particular career and the subsequent success in following that career path. They explore the relationships between the choice of career pathway and a range of measures of the graduate training environment and examine the links between graduate training and entrepreneurship and industry careers by estimating the causal links between graduate training and entrepreneurship and employment in industry. The project will develop best practices for making these links to study entrepreneurship and industry employment, document the complex pathways for academic-industry engagement, pave the way for an exploratory analysis of the careers of postdocs and non-PhD completers, and lay the foundation for new theoretical models to guide practice. The project also will help inform future national surveys by reporting data and suggesting items that could enable more useful workforce trend analyses. <br/><br/>The primarily empirical research design is guided by a range of theoretical paradigms, including student identity theory or student socialization research, life course theory from sociology, career development theory, and human capital theory from economics. The researchers will apply a wide range of statistical models to test seven theories. These range from a human capital-based conjecture that experience working on risky and/or interdisciplinary research projects prepare students for jobs in the rapidly-changing, high growth (and high volatility) industries that are engines of growth for the nation?s new economy, to a conjecture of socialization and information transmission through networks where connections to industry and entrepreneurship through advisors, peers, and suppliers facilitate entry into industry and entrepreneurship careers. At the same time, the researchers expect new theories to emerge from their exploration of the rich new data that will be constructed. This iterative process will be enhanced by interactions with the expert advisory board, which includes many members of the STEM policy community, who will inform the implementation of the project.<br/><br/>The project is supported by the ECR program that emphasizes fundamental STEM education research that generates foundational knowledge in the field. Investments are made in critical areas that are essential, broad and enduring: STEM learning and STEM learning environments, broadening participation in STEM, and STEM workforce development. ECR supports the accumulation of robust evidence to inform efforts to understand, build theory to explain, and suggest intervention and innovations to address persistent challenges in STEM interest, education, learning and participation.","mauve_battery","Collaborative Research: STEM Training, Employment in Industry, and Entrepreneurship",
"1231206","Structural, Climate, and Communication Dynamics of Innovative Inter-Organizational Project Teams","SES","SOCIOLOGY, Science of Organizations","9/15/2012","7/15/2016","Vernon Miller","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Sara Kiesler","8/31/2017","$320,855.00 ","Sinem Korkmaz","vmiller@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","SBE","1331, 8031","019Z, 1331, 8031, 9178, 9251","$0.00 ","This project assesses how communication behaviors and programs in inter-organizational project teams contribute to effective implementation of innovative practices and overall project quality. The project-based nature of the construction industry introduces many challenges, one of which is the collaboration process among key participants and their contracting organizations. This challenge is magnified in sustainable building projects where interdisciplinary collaboration is most needed. Accordingly, the project examines the introduction and use of integrated project delivery (IPD) in project teams as an innovation in the architecture, engineering, and construction industry. As an initial step, case studies are used to follow conventional theoretical models that consider the innovation's match to the organizations' structure, climate, and values. Then key communication behaviors of inter-organizational project team members, who not only serve as conduits in information flow and champions of working together, but also are creators of meaning and influencers of others' attitudes, will be examined. Consequently, the study will explore communication behaviors related to team dynamics, negotiation, and role change and their relationship to commitment to IPD and project outcomes across 20 inter-organizational project teams engaged in sustainable buildings projects.<br/><br/>The long-term goal is to develop an integrated organizational communication model for industry that fosters collaborative long-term relationships, product quality, and innovativeness. This research represents an important, continuing step toward enhancing sustainable building practices via effective coordination mechanisms and at the broader level, the identification of communication behaviors central to inter-organizational project teams. Results will contribute to interdisciplinary teaching modules and be widely disseminated. The research outcomes will be used to inspire graduate students; especially women in interdisciplinary research via CrossTalks to be given at Michigan State University.","crimson_battery","Structural, Climate, and Communication Dynamics of Innovative Inter-Organizational Project Teams",
"1252624","CAREER: Flexible Network Estimation from High-Dimensional Data","DMS","STATISTICS, Division Co-Funding: CAREER","7/1/2013","5/3/2016","Daniela Witten","WA","University of Washington","Continuing grant","Gabor J. Szekely","6/30/2018","$276,380.00 ","","dwitten@u.washington.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","MPS","1269, 8048","1045","$0.00 ","This research involves the development of new statistical methods and theory for graphical modeling on the basis of high-dimensional data, in which the number of features exceeds the number of observations. In certain applications, such as the estimation of transcriptional regulatory networks on the basis of gene expression data, existing techniques are inadequate for two reasons: the assumptions that underlie these techniques are insufficient for accurate network recovery in the face of such high dimensionality, and furthermore the assumptions that are made may be unrealistic for the data. To address these two problems, the investigator proposes to study (a) a set of techniques for more effectively learning one or more Gaussian graphical models by making more effective and structured assumptions about the topology of the true conditional dependence networks, via convex penalties and other techniques; and (b) more flexible frameworks for estimating conditional dependence relationships without the usual Gaussianity assumptions.<br/><br/>In recent years, new technologies and fast computers have resulted in the generation and availability of vast amounts of data in fields as diverse as molecular biology, marketing, finance, sociology, linguistics, and computer vision. Unfortunately, analyzing this type of ""big data"" poses severe statistical challenges, and the classical statistical toolset cannot be applied. Therefore, developing effective statistical machine learning techniques for making sense of very large-scale data sets is crucial for progress in many areas of science as well as industry, in order to bridge the gap between the data that is being collected and the scientific and industrial questions that are being asked about the data. As an example, being able to estimate gene networks on the basis of genomic data has important implications for understanding biological processes, and for making progress towards the treatment of cancer and other disease. This proposal involves (1) developing techniques for improved network estimation on the basis of high-dimensional data sets; (2) disseminating the resulting techniques to the statistical and biomedical communities via publications, seminars, and the public release of software; (3) training PhD students in statistical machine learning techniques for big data; and (4) increasing the exposure of high school students, undergraduates, and members of underrepresented groups to statistical machine learning and big data challenges via short courses, conference presentations, and other activities.","salmon_atom","CAREER: Flexible Network Estimation from High-Dimensional Data",
"1147944","SI2-SSI: The Language Application Grid: A Framework for Rapid Adaptation and Reuse","ACI","LINGUISTICS, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, SPECIAL PROJECTS - CISE, COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH, IIS SPECIAL PROJECTS, SOFTWARE & HARDWARE FOUNDATION, Software Institutes, ","8/1/2012","5/2/2016","Nancy Ide","NY","Vassar College","Standard Grant","Rajiv Ramnath","7/31/2017","$994,057.00 ","James Pustejovsky, Eric Nyberg, Christopher Cieri","ide@cs.vassar.edu","124 Raymond Avenue","Poughkeepsie","NY","124 Raymond Avenue, Poughkeepsie, NY","126040657","8454377092","CSE","1311, 1333, 1714, 7298, 7484, 7798, 8004, O422","5983, 7433, 7944, 8004, 8009, 9251, 1311, 1333","$0.00 ","The need for robust language processing capabilities across academic disciplines, education, and industry is without question of vital importance to national security, infrastructure development, and the competitiveness of American business. However, at this time a robust, interoperable software infrastructure to support natural language processing (NLP) research and development does not exist. To fill this gap, this project establishes an large international collaborative effort involving key international players to develop an open, web-based infrastructure through which massive and distributed language resources can be easily accessed, in whole or in part, and within which tailored language services can be efficiently composed, disseminated and consumed by researchers, developers, and students. <br/><br/>The goal of this project is to build a comprehensive network of web services and resources within the NLP community. This requires four specific activities: (1) Design, develop and promote a service-oriented architecture for NLP development that defines atomic and composite web services, along with support for service discovery, testing and reuse; (2) Construct a Language Application Grid (LAPPS Grid) based on Service Grid Software developed in Japan; (3) Provide an open advancement (OA) framework for component- and application-based evaluation that enables rapid identification of frequent error categories within modules, thus contributing to more effective investment of resources; (4) Actively promote adoption, use, and community involvement with the LAPPS Grid. <br/><br/>By providing access to cloud-based services and support for locally-run services, the LAPPS Grid will lead to the development of a massive global network of language data and processing capabilities that can be used by scientists and engineers from diverse disciplines, providing components that require no expertise in language processing to use. Research in sociology, psychology, economics, education, linguistics, digital media, and the humanities will be impacted by the ability to easily manipulate and process diverse language data sources in multiple languages.","lime_battery","SI2-SSI: The Language Application Grid: A Framework for Rapid Adaptation and Reuse",
"1147912","SI2-SSI: The Language Application Grid: A Framework for Rapid Adaptation and Reuse","ACI","SPECIAL PROJECTS - CISE, SPECIAL PROJECTS - CCF, COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH, COMPUTER SYSTEMS, IIS SPECIAL PROJECTS, ROBUST INTELLIGENCE, SOFTWARE & HARDWARE FOUNDATION, Software Institutes, ","8/1/2012","9/11/2015","James Pustejovsky","MA","Brandeis University","Standard Grant","Rajiv Ramnath","7/31/2017","$1,764,929.00 ","Marc Verhagen, Eric Nyberg, Christopher Cieri","jamesp@cs.brandeis.edu","415 SOUTH ST MAILSTOP 116","WALTHAM","MA","415 SOUTH ST MAILSTOP 116, WALTHAM, MA","24532728","7817362121","CSE","1714, 2878, 7298, 7354, 7484, 7495, 7798, 8004, O422","5983, 7433, 7944, 8009, 1714, 2878, 7484, 8004","$0.00 ","The need for robust language processing capabilities across academic disciplines, education, and industry is without question of vital importance to national security, infrastructure development, and the competitiveness of American business. However, at this time a robust, interoperable software infrastructure to support natural language processing (NLP) research and development does not exist. To fill this gap, this project establishes an large international collaborative effort involving key international players to develop an open, web-based infrastructure through which massive and distributed language resources can be easily accessed, in whole or in part, and within which tailored language services can be efficiently composed, disseminated and consumed by researchers, developers, and students. <br/><br/>The goal of this project is to build a comprehensive network of web services and resources within the NLP community. This requires four specific activities: (1) Design, develop and promote a service-oriented architecture for NLP development that defines atomic and composite web services, along with support for service discovery, testing and reuse; (2) Construct a Language Application Grid (LAPPS Grid) based on Service Grid Software developed in Japan; (3) Provide an open advancement (OA) framework for component- and application-based evaluation that enables rapid identification of frequent error categories within modules, thus contributing to more effective investment of resources; (4) Actively promote adoption, use, and community involvement with the LAPPS Grid. <br/><br/>By providing access to cloud-based services and support for locally-run services, the LAPPS Grid will lead to the development of a massive global network of language data and processing capabilities that can be used by scientists and engineers from diverse disciplines, providing components that require no expertise in language processing to use. Research in sociology, psychology, economics, education, linguistics, digital media, and the humanities will be impacted by the ability to easily manipulate and process diverse language data sources in multiple languages.","lime_battery","SI2-SSI: The Language Application Grid: A Framework for Rapid Adaptation and Reuse",
"1522744","Investigating the Health and Wellbeing of Alaska Native Elderly in Northwest Alaska through Community Participatory Based Research Methods","PLR","ARCTIC SOCIAL SCIENCES","7/15/2016","7/11/2016","Jordan Lewis","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Anna Kerttula de Echave","6/30/2019","$490,739.00 ","","jplewis@alaska.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","GEO","5221","1079, 5221","$0.00 ","Alaska Native communities have a strong sense of respect for their older residents. In many Alaskan rural communities, whose primary population is Alaska Native people, the elderly are still relied upon for their deep knowledge and understanding of the natural environment, heritage languages, and cultural practices which are important not only for economic survival but social cohesion and community wellbeing. However, change is deeply affecting Alaska Native communities and Alaska Native people are forced to adapt to the new environmental, economic and social realities that affect their worlds. This research project will explore how Alaska Native elderly are adapting to rapid economic, environmental, and social change by exploring Alaska Native elderly and their own understanding and definition of what successful aging means to them. <br/><br/>The current research project will establish a better understanding of successful aging from the perspectives of Alaska Native elderly in Northwest Alaska. Being the Principal Investigators second research project on this topic, this project has the potential to inform future studies of indigenous successful aging, studies that allow the elderly themselves to subjectively define for themselves what it means to age well. In the spirit of community-based participatory research, several communities in Northwest Alaska reached out to the principal investigator, Dr. Jordan P. Lewis (Aleut, Native Village of Naknek), to request that similar research be conducted in their region. They did so after learning of his ""Successful Aging Study,"" which was carried out in Bristol Bay Alaska from 2011-2014 and brought awareness of the value of positive, or generative, focused research with the elderly, highlighting their lessons and knowledge for healthy aging. <br/><br/>This research study will consist of 60 qualitative in-depth interviews with Alaska Native elderly to establish an indigenous understanding of what successful aging means for Alaska Natives in Northwest Alaska and what is required to age in place. Interviews will be conducted with Alaska Native elderly and their family members in their own homes in five participating communities, as well as those who have relocated to the Quyanna Care facility in Nome, Alaska. Through these interviews the research team will to explore the concept of successful aging and hope to gain a sense of Alaska Native beliefs about aging, what is required to age in place? and how relocation to facilities for the elderly impacts views of successful aging? In the spirit of Community-Based Participatory Research (CBPR), participants will be engaged through the entire research process, from conception to data analysis. Meetings will be held in participating communities to review the findings and receive feedback; this will ensure the findings reflect the unique perspectives of the Elders, families, communities, and region. These findings will also be compared with the previous study on successful aging conducted in Bristol Bay to compare and contrast experiences of aging in these two rural regions of Alaska. This study will also explore what is required to age in place to reduce or eliminate the need for the elderly to relocate - taking with them the language, culture, and history of the community. Previous research by the PI has shown that enabling older Alaskan Native people to remain in their homes and communities contributes to the health and wellbeing of the communities. The research will shed additional light on what it means to age well in rural Alaska and determine what role their community plays in how Alaska Native people subjectively define their aging process. <br/><br/>The significance of this proposed research advances discovery through the establishment of a locally and culturally informed, Alaska Native, understanding of successful aging that builds on the PI's previous projects. In addition to contributing to the academic literature on successful aging, it promotes teaching and learning from the Elders on healthy aging in rural Alaska. It also educates researchers on the importance of CBPR and allowing the elderly to subjectively define their aging process, as well as engaging the local community throughout the entire research process, which promotes the coproduction of knowledge and bi-directional learning. This research project broadens the participation of underrepresented groups (Alaska Natives) and puts them on equal footing with the scientists in interpreting results and in presenting the results. This research also has the potential to contribute to the disciplines of anthropology, gerontology, community psychology, sociology, and others by paving the way for future researchers interested in indigenous aging. <br/><br/>The research findings can influence health and social policy in Alaska and how healthcare and long-term support services are delivered to older residents in rural communities. The results of this research will be published and be disseminated for other researchers, gerontologists, anthropologists, and students to use with the permission of the tribal governing authorities, the Alaska Native participants and their communities. This study will also highlight that aging does not have to equal poor health and immobility; aging well should be a right that can be attained by everyone. This research has the potential to inform health professionals, policy advocates, local and state officials about the factors that determine whether or not rural Alaska communities are able to meet the needs of their elderly and enable them to live their remaining years as they may wish.","charcoal_battery","Investigating the Health and Wellbeing of Alaska Native Elderly in Northwest Alaska through Community Participatory Based Research Methods",
"1416860","IBSS: Multi-Scale Processes Affecting Spatial Population Distributions","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","9/1/2014","5/16/2016","Deborah Balk","NY","CUNY Baruch College","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","2/28/2018","$1,000,000.00 ","Mark Montgomery, Brian O'Neill","deborah.balk@baruch.cuny.edu","One Bernard Baruch Way","New York","NY","One Bernard Baruch Way, New York, NY","100105526","6463122205","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","This interdisciplinary research project will examine the different demographic, socioeconomic, and geographic factors and processes that influence population levels and distributions at different scales ranging from local to national. The investigators will develop a new, multi-scale modeling framework to assess the relative importance of these factors and processes and increase knowledge regarding how and why the spatial distribution of the human population changes over time. Project results will help improve projections of possible future population change, and they will enhance theories and methods in demography, geography, economics, and sociology as well as in topically focused realms, such as disaster preparedness and environmental change. Project findings will be disseminated broadly through major interdisciplinary and disciplinary journals, while and the methods used to generate them will be made available from long-term publicly accessible repositories.<br/><br/>Understanding how and why the spatial distribution of the human population changes over time, both across large geographic regions and at the local scale, is fundamental to a variety of scholarly and policy arenas, including migration, economic development, environmental change, and the spread of infectious disease. A significant obstacle to a holistic understanding of spatial population distribution and change is that the determinants of change act at a range of scales. These scale-dependent determinants interact with one another, complicating both theory and modeling efforts. This research project aims to improve the understanding of the dynamics of spatial population change by bridging geographic scales and scientific disciplines to develop a novel explanatory framework. The investigators will bring together theoretical perspectives from demography, geography, and economics, and they will use those perspectives in the conduct of a multi-scale analysis of spatial population distribution and its determinants in the U.S., Mexico, and India. These sites have been chosen to represent a range of socioeconomic conditions and behaviors as well as a range of data quality and availability. The investigators will assess how spatial population outcomes result from an interrelated set of influences at the national, aggregate urban/rural, city, and local levels, and they will assess how the relative importance of these influences varies across countries at different levels of economic development and within countries by socio-economic conditions, demographic behaviors, and geographic characteristics. Hypotheses will be tested using several decades of spatial population data that will be merged with other economic and demographic and geophysical data in a spatially explicit, quantitative framework. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: Multi-Scale Processes Affecting Spatial Population Distributions",
"1333264","Collaborative Research: Toward an Integrated, Lifecycle Governance Framework for Delivering Civil Infrastructure Systems","SES","CIVIL INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS, INFRAST MGMT & EXTREME EVENTS, Science of Organizations","9/1/2013","8/29/2013","Michael Garvin","VA","Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University","Standard Grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","8/31/2017","$203,010.00 ","","garvin@vt.edu","Sponsored Programs 0170","BLACKSBURG","VA","Sponsored Programs 0170, BLACKSBURG, VA","240610001","5402315281","SBE","1631, 1638, 8031","029E, 036E, 039E, 041E, 042E, 1057, CVIS","$0.00 ","In an era when governments worldwide are too cash-strapped to build or upgrade sorely needed infrastructure, some have experimented with long-term concessions (often referred to as public-private partnerships, or P3s) to private consortia to finance, design, build, operate and maintain infrastructure assets. P3s offer potential solutions to this infrastructure challenge, along with political challenges. Existing governance theories (typically drawn from economics, sociology, psychology or public administration) provide partial insights for governing shorter-lived, less complex transactions, but are inadequate to guide the necessary legislation, contracts, and management practices for P3 infrastructure projects to thrive and remain sustainable over their typical 30-year concession terms. This project integrates and expands upon previous work to build a cross disciplinary theoretical framework that will ultimately help design new governance approaches for enhancing the efficiency and speed-of-delivery advantages of P3s.<br/><br/>Economists agree that investments in expanded delivery of high quality civil infrastructure assets provide enormous and widely shared public benefits. Such investments can also generate multi-decade, relatively low-risk, inflation-adjusted cash flows, so they offer excellent investment opportunities for pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors who could deploy their huge pools of capital into P3 infrastructure projects to stabilize and boost their portfolio investment returns while supporting worthy economic development. This project will also inform the governance of complex and multi-faceted organizations, such as P3s, with recommendations for both future research and new public policy initiatives.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Toward an Integrated, Lifecycle Governance Framework for Delivering Civil Infrastructure Systems",
"1439603","BCC: Collaborative Research: Designing SKOPE: Synthesized Knowledge of Past Environments","SMA","Data Infrastructure","9/1/2014","8/25/2014","Bertram Ludaescher","IL","University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign","Standard Grant","William J. Badecker","2/28/2017","$133,877.00 ","","ludaesch@illinois.edu","SUITE A","CHAMPAIGN","IL","SUITE A, CHAMPAIGN, IL","618207473","2173332187","SBE","8294","7433","$0.00 ","An important focus of scientific research is understanding the complex interactions between human societies and the climatic, physical, and biological environments on which they depend, and which they, in turn, influence. Past environments, of course, were often quite different from those we experience today. Furthermore, important processes of social and environmental change operate slowly and are sometimes visible only when viewed over decades or centuries. In order to study social and natural processes operating over anything other than short periods in recent decades, long-term environmental knowledge specific to particular locations and times is essential. <br/><br/>Unfortunately, state-of-the-art data on past environments are difficult to find and even more difficult to integrate and interpret. Under the direction of Dr. Kintigh and his colleagues, the project will develop plans for an online tool, SKOPE (Synthesized Knowledge of Past Environments), that will provide state-of-the-art information about the environment experienced by humans at a given a place and time, past or present. Using explicit scientific procedures, it will process the data to yield a cutting-edge synthesis of environmental information specifically tailored to the user's request. Initial development is planned for the Southwest US, but SKOPE's design will be designed to be easily extended to other places and times. Once implemented, SKOPE will be freely accessible on the Internet. It will be applicable in such fields as sustainability, archaeology, sociology, economics, anthropology, and ecology as well as for resource management and planning. For example, it will directly benefit archaeologists comparing the social consequences of long-term climate change across different civilizations and ecologists investigating long-term changes in biodiversity. Planners could use its long-term environmental reconstructions to investigate vulnerabilities in existing infrastructure that are outside the experience provided by the historic record. Students and members of the general public could learn how ancient environments differed from contemporary ones in places they study, inhabit, or visit. <br/><br/>SKOPE will access online databases of modern and historic observational data (for example, on rainfall, temperature, and plant and animal distributions) as well as databases of indicators for past environments (for example, rainfall reconstructed from tree-ring widths, and plant remains and animal bones found in dated archaeological sites). Scientific experts in the interpretation of different classes of data will develop procedures that transform these diverse environmental observations and indicators into a thoroughly documented scientific synthesis of the environment for the time and place of interest. The design of SKOPE will be guided by the needs stated by potential users in meetings with academic, public-, and private-sector professionals. The project will identify key sources of data on current and past environments and will generalize the analytical procedures required to achieve useful synthesis. Subsequent development could extend the tool to additional areas and times and incorporate more classes of environmental data.","crimson_battery","BCC: Collaborative Research: Designing SKOPE: Synthesized Knowledge of Past Environments",
"1637358","EAGER: Smart and Connected Communities: Reducing the Friction in the L3 Connects Infrastructure through the Integration of SMART Technologies","DRL","AISL","9/1/2016","8/31/2016","Nichole Pinkard","IL","DePaul University","Standard Grant","John Cherniavsky","8/31/2017","$213,273.00 ","","nicholepinkard@gmail.com","1 East Jackson Boulevard","Chicago","IL","1 East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL","606042287","3123627595","EHR","7259","7916, 8244","$0.00 ","This is an Early-concept Grant for Exploratory Research supporting research in Smart and Connected Communities. The research supported by the award is collaborative with research at the University of Colorado. The researchers are studying the use of technologies to enable communities to connect youth and youth organizations to effectively support diverse learning pathways for all students. These communities, the youth, the youth organizations, formal and informal education organizations, and civic organizations form a learning ecology. The DePaul University researchers will design and implement a smart community infrastructure in the City of Chicago to track real-time student participation in community STEM activities and to develop mobile applications for both students and adults. The smart community infrastructure will bring together information from a variety of sources that affect students' participation in community activities. These include geographic information (e.g., where the student lives, where the activities take place, the student transportation options, the school the student attends), student related information (e.g., the education and experience background of the student, the economic status of the student, students' schedules), and activity information (e.g., location of activity, requirements for participation). The University of Colorado researchers will take the lead on analyzing these data in terms of a community learning ecologies framework and will explore computational approaches (i.e., recommender systems, visualizations of learning opportunities) to improve youth exploration and uptake of interests and programs. These smart technologies are then used to reduce the friction in the learning connection infrastructure (called L3 for informal, formal, and virtual learning) to enable the student to access opportunities for participation in STEM activities that are most feasible and most appropriate for the student. Such a flexible computational approach is needed to support the necessary diversity of potential recommendations: new interests for youth to explore; specific programs based on interests, friends' activities, or geographic accessibility; or programs needed to ""level-up"" (develop deeper skills) and complete skills to enhance youths' learning portfolios. Although this information was always available, it was never integrated so it could be used to serve the community of both learners and the providers and to provide measurable student learning and participation outcomes.<br/><br/>The learning ecologies theoretical framework and supporting computational methods are a contribution to the state of the art in studying afterschool learning opportunities. While the concept of learning ecologies is not new, to date, no one has offered such a systematic and theoretically-grounded portfolio of measures for characterizing the health and resilience of STEM learning ecologies at multiple scales. The theoretical frameworks and concepts draw together multiple research and application domains: computer science, sociology of education, complexity science, and urban planning. The L3 Connects infrastructure itself represents an unprecedented opportunities for conducting ""living lab"" experiments to improve stakeholder experience of linking providers to a single network and linking youth to more expanded and varied opportunities. The University of Colorado team will employ three methods: mapping, modeling, and linking youth to STEM learning opportunities in school and out of school settings in a large urban city (Chicago). The recommender system will be embedded into youth and parent facing mobile apps, enabling the team to characterize the degree to which content-based, collaborative filtering, or constraint based recommendations influence youth actions. The project will result in two measurable outcomes of importance to key L3 stakeholder groups: a 10% increase in the number of providers (programs that are part of the infrastructure) in target neighborhoods and a 20% increase in the number of youth participating in programs.","mauve_battery","EAGER: Smart and Connected Communities: Reducing the Friction in the L3 Connects Infrastructure through the Integration of SMART Technologies",
"1560987","Medical Decision-Making and Network Assembly Mechanisms in Inpatient Surgical Care","SES","Science of Organizations","7/1/2016","3/3/2016","Jason Owen-Smith","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Continuing grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","6/30/2018","$173,304.00 ","John Hollingsworth","jdos@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","8031","9179","$0.00 ","Inpatient surgical care largely relies on teamwork. A single patient will see many doctors and other care providers over the course of pre- and postoperative care. The surgery itself also involves multiple surgeons and other caregivers. The relationships that develop as physicians work together during the surgical care process create teamwork networks that have important implications for the quality and efficiency of care. This research will observe and interview physicians, nurses, and other caregivers about their work and the treatment decisions that they make around inpatient surgical procedures. This information will be used to systematically examine how collaborative networks evolve and change in hospitals. This research will inform efforts to improve the quality and reduce the costs of surgical care while providing new insights into important social science questions about how these kinds of networks form and grow.<br/><br/>In the last two decades social scientific research on networks has undergone a dramatic transformation as new data and methods have enabled a shift toward dynamic analysis. At the same time, work in the fields of organizational theory, economic, and cultural sociology has emphasized the contingent and situational nature of relationships, structures, and their effects. While networks of various sorts have been shown to influence individual and collective outcomes in a wide range of substantive areas, the linkages between micro network dynamics, macro network structures, and their effects have yet to be fully specified. This research will take important steps toward explaining the formation and effects of a substantively important class of networks by examining the ways in which organizational arrangements, individual choices, and existing relationships shape physicians' treatment decisions and ultimately the health of larger patient populations in individual hospitals and broader healthcare markets. This mechanism-based approach to understanding how physician relationships form, reproduce, and change in particular organizations and treatment situations integrates work on the collective dynamics of large-scale networks with theories that emphasize the organizational and institutional contexts in which relationships emerge, gain meaning, and exert their effects. The theoretically anchored, observational, and interview-based field work that we propose herein seeks to clarify the complicated processes by which networks evolve while identifying specific mechanisms, scope conditions, and contingencies that span individual preferences, structural pressures, and organizational constraints or opportunities.","crimson_atom","Medical Decision-Making and Network Assembly Mechanisms in Inpatient Surgical Care",
"1334292","Collaborative Research: Toward an Integrated, Lifecycle Governance Framework for Delivering Civil Infrastructure Systems","SES","DECISION RISK & MANAGEMENT SCI, CIVIL INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS, INFRAST MGMT & EXTREME EVENTS, Science of Organizations","9/1/2013","8/29/2013","Raymond Levitt","CA","Stanford University","Standard Grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","8/31/2017","$316,202.00 ","","Ray.Levitt@Stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","1321, 1631, 1638, 8031","029E, 036E, 039E, 041E, 042E, 1057, CVIS","$0.00 ","In an era when governments worldwide are too cash-strapped to build or upgrade sorely needed infrastructure, some have experimented with long-term concessions (often referred to as public-private partnerships, or P3s) to private consortia to finance, design, build, operate and maintain infrastructure assets. P3s offer potential solutions to this infrastructure challenge, along with political challenges. Existing governance theories (typically drawn from economics, sociology, psychology or public administration) provide partial insights for governing shorter-lived, less complex transactions, but are inadequate to guide the necessary legislation, contracts, and management practices for P3 infrastructure projects to thrive and remain sustainable over their typical 30-year concession terms. This project integrates and expands upon previous work to build a cross disciplinary theoretical framework that will ultimately help design new governance approaches for enhancing the efficiency and speed-of-delivery advantages of P3s.<br/><br/>Economists agree that investments in expanded delivery of high quality civil infrastructure assets provide enormous and widely shared public benefits. Such investments can also generate multi-decade, relatively low-risk, inflation-adjusted cash flows, so they offer excellent investment opportunities for pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors who could deploy their huge pools of capital into P3 infrastructure projects to stabilize and boost their portfolio investment returns while supporting worthy economic development. This project will also inform the governance of complex and multi-faceted organizations, such as P3s, with recommendations for both future research and new public policy initiatives.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Toward an Integrated, Lifecycle Governance Framework for Delivering Civil Infrastructure Systems",
"1357315","Cliometric Conferences for 2015, 2016 and World Congress for 2017","SES","ECONOMICS","8/1/2014","4/11/2014","Sumner La Croix","HI","University of Hawaii","Standard Grant","Nancy A. Lutz","7/31/2017","$122,270.00 ","Carolyn Moehling","lacroix@hawaii.edu","2440 Campus Road, Box 368","HONOLULU","HI","2440 Campus Road, Box 368, HONOLULU, HI","968222234","8089567800","SBE","1320","9150","$0.00 ","This award provides partial support for three conferences in economic history: the 2015 and 2016 Cliometrics Conference and the 2017 World Congress of the Cliometric Society. The research topics bring together economics with statistics, demography, political science, sociology, anthropology, and archaeology. The goal is to use scientific methods to analyse historic data sources. <br/><br/>Papers presented at the conference are chosen in response to an open call for submission. Particular attention in selection goes to graduate students and new scholars. The steady mixing of newly trained and experienced researchers creates a unique intellectual environment that has worked to increase participation in this field of economics. The result is that young scholars receive the stimulation and encouragement to build strong scientific records in this interdisciplinary field.","crimson_battery","Cliometric Conferences for 2015, 2016 and World Congress for 2017",
"1513314","SPRF-IBSS: Linking complex social and ecological systems through integrative network modeling","SMA","SPRF-IBSS","8/1/2015","5/18/2015","Michele Barnes","HI","University of Hawaii","Standard Grant","Josie S. Welkom","7/31/2017","$152,298.00 ","Orou Gaoue","barnesm@hawaii.edu","2440 Campus Road, Box 368","HONOLULU","HI","2440 Campus Road, Box 368, HONOLULU, HI","968222234","8089567800","SBE","8209","9150","$0.00 ","The Directorate of Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences offers postdoctoral research fellowships to provide opportunities for recent doctoral graduates to obtain additional training, to gain research experience under the sponsorship of established scientists, and to broaden their scientific horizons beyond their undergraduate and graduate training. Postdoctoral fellowships are further designed to assist new scientists to direct their research efforts across traditional disciplinary lines and to avail themselves of unique research resources, sites, and facilities, including at foreign locations. This postdoctoral fellowship award supports a rising interdisciplinary scholar studying complex social and ecological systems. Humans rely on the natural environment to support to support a wide array of social needs, such as health, prosperity, and welfare. Yet natural systems are facing an unprecedented level of stress, and strategies to advance global sustainability are urgently needed. This challenge is particularly relevant for coral reefs, which are critical for supporting biodiversity and human well-being, yet continue to decline globally. In an effort toward meeting this challenge, this grant supports an SBE postdoctoral fellow in assessing how connections within and between coastal communities and fisheries resources contribute to successful (or unsuccessful) management of coral reefs. Results are uncovering problematic power dynamics, and providing recommendations on the connections that communities and practitioners should seek to build to improve biodiversity conservation and social well-being. Supporting NSF?s mission to advance national health, prosperity, and welfare, this project directly informs coral reef management planning and practice in the U.S and abroad, with results and insights being disseminated to fishing communities, practitioners, marine resource managers, and the scientific community. This project also directly addresses NSF?s mission to promote scientific progress by linking theory and data from the social and ecological sciences, and by defining frontiers in applied ecosystem modeling. Finally, this project advances education and diversity by providing the fellow with invaluable training and preparing her for a productive career in academia, where women have been historically underrepresented.<br/><br/>How do connections within and between people (the social system) and nature (the ecological system) mediate outcomes in social-ecological systems? To what extent are social and ecological systems interdependent, and how might this vary with context? To answer these questions, the SBE fellow is advancing a novel interdisciplinary network modeling framework to assess how social-ecological interdependencies within and between fishing communities and fisheries resources mediate outcomes, i.e., livelihood benefits and sustainable fisheries, in coral reef ecosystems from across the Asia-Pacific. This research leverages cutting edge advances in multi-level random graph modeling and brings together perspectives from sociology, political economy, human geography, and ecology in order to (1) identify key social and ecological interdependencies, (2) understand how social actors mediate social interactions and relationships with resources, and (3) develop novel theory and cultivate practical guidance for more effective natural resource management. This project provides important empirical insight on how social and ecological systems are interlinked, the factors that drive the formation of social-ecological structures, and how social-ecological feedbacks relate to outcomes, thus presenting a unique opportunity for the development of theory applicable to a much wider range of settings. This work also contributes to a growing body of interdisciplinary research investigating the role of social connectivity, power asymmetries, and social-ecological alignment in facilitating (or impeding) desirable outcomes in environmental governance. Finally, this research is advancing a novel interdisciplinary methodological framework that can be applied empirically across a range of contexts in both the social and ecological sciences.","crimson_battery","SPRF-IBSS: Linking complex social and ecological systems through integrative network modeling",
"1545303","Unique Challenges and Opportunities for Business Schools in Pursuing Federal Research Grants","SES","SCIENCE OF SCIENCE POLICY, Science of Organizations","7/15/2015","6/4/2015","Todd Maurer","GA","Georgia State University Research Foundation, Inc.","Standard Grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","6/30/2017","$49,775.00 ","","tmaurer@gsu.edu","G76Dahlberg Hall 30 Courtland St","Atlanta","GA","G76Dahlberg Hall 30 Courtland St, Atlanta, GA","303023999","4044133500","SBE","7626, 8031","","$0.00 ","Non-technical Description:<br/><br/>Despite having many strengths and unique assets that create the strong potential for outstanding NSF-funded research, many business schools also face unique challenges that impede the pursuit and acquisition of research grants to support scholarship as is common in other disciplines. Therefore, both NSF and many business schools may be missing outstanding funded research projects because of these dynamics. To the extent that business schools could become more oriented toward grant funding in the future, the present workshop will be timely and helpful for both NSF and business schools. More importantly, if research funds can be leveraged further to bring stronger research to market, this is valuable to all constituents and stakeholders that could benefit from greater insights into issues that affect well-being of individuals, competitiveness of the workforce, innovativeness of research, partnerships between academia and industry, and increased economic competitiveness--all concerns of both business schools and NSF. Greater insight into, awareness of and ultimately better alignment of high value research resources at a national level could have transformative effects across the United States business school research markets in which NSF could play an increasingly key role as a sponsor and partner in the coming decades.<br/><br/>Technical Description:<br/><br/>The objective of the workshop is to conduct a needs assessment involving the unique challenges and opportunities that business schools specifically face in applying for and administering federal research grants. The workshop attendees will be sampled from college leadership at research-oriented colleges of business in the United States. These leaders will discuss such issues as the barriers that prevent business faculty from pursuing research proposals and the challenges colleges of business face in supporting the acquisition and administration of grants; the unique strengths and assets that business schools possess that make them very competitive for doing outstanding research and for obtaining funding for that work; possible strategies and best practices to enhance and leverage opportunities for pursuing grants, while minimizing the challenges; and ideas for future business school-NSF coordination, communication and initiatives to enhance funded research activity that would benefit all relevant stakeholders. A white paper will document this workshop and will be disseminated. This will make a unique contribution because the match between business school research orientations and values important to NSF is potentially high: Business school research combines science and knowledge from many disciplines, including mathematics, economics, psychology, philosophy, sociology and others while applying increasingly rigorous methods and standards in research. In addition, this research is conducted within a profession that values practical relevance to business and society. Thus, business school research reflects high value on intellectual merit, the potential for multidisciplinary or interdisciplinary research, as well as value on broader impacts or contributing to the achievement of societally relevant outcomes. Further, human capital market dynamics may result in top scholars from various disciplines being attracted to business schools resulting very active and influential researchers doing business-related research. Yet, despite potential for outstanding NSF-funded research, many business schools wrestle with unique challenges in scholarship, such as an emphasis on journal lists to evaluate research which may present difficulties for pursuing interdisciplinary research as well as a culture that does not promote the pursuit of research grants to support scholarship as is common in other disciplines.","crimson_battery","Unique Challenges and Opportunities for Business Schools in Pursuing Federal Research Grants",
"1630265","Collaborative Research: Smooth National Measurement of Public Opinion Across Boundaries and Levels: A View From the Bayesian Spatial Approach","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/15/2016","8/30/2016","James Monogan","GA","University of Georgia Research Foundation Inc","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","8/31/2019","$123,616.00 ","","monogan@uga.edu","310 East Campus Rd","ATHENS","GA","310 East Campus Rd, ATHENS, GA","306021589","7065425939","SBE","1333, 1371","","$0.00 ","This research project will measure public opinion in voting constituencies around the United States. The project will provide estimates of opinion in districts with little or no survey data, such as state legislative districts. The project's intellectual merit comes from establishing a new means for measuring public opinion that not only uses survey respondents' answers to polling questions but also incorporates important information about where respondents are located and what that implies about geographic patterns in public opinion. Coupled with population information from the U.S. Census, the project will produce stronger estimates of public sentiment when survey data are sparsely distributed. The investigators will release free software that includes user-friendly functions allowing any citizen to determine public opinion in his or her own district or in districts that have not yet cast any votes, such as proposed congressional districts in a redistricting cycle. The software will allow more sophisticated users to obtain measures for any variable (even if unrelated to public opinion) in relationship to geographic boundaries, which will have extensions to research in public health, epidemiology, economics, sociology, business, and law. The broader impact to society will be that the data and software from this project will provide more information for the news media, the public, and elected officials regarding the outlook of the nation by constituency and locale, thereby providing a better understanding of the American representation process. The project will recruit a diverse group of research assistants that will be trained in this kind of statistical analysis.<br/><br/>Studies relating to public opinion often settle for less-than-ideal data. Frequently, researchers will measure public opinion in the 50 states or the 435 congressional districts by pooling together several surveys taken over time (losing a sense of change over time), using old measures of public opinion (which may not be consistent with current public views), or using presidential vote share to approximate public sentiment (which is prone to error because factors besides ideology affect vote choices). With smaller districts than these, such as state legislative districts, the problem is magnified considerably, because it is rare to have many survey respondents in such a small area. In this project, the investigators ask: How can survey responses and the geographic location of the respondents be used to reliably forecast constituency public opinion? To answer this question, the investigators will use the method of Bayesian universal kriging. This technique fits a training model over survey data to determine how demographic factors shape public opinion and how the portion of survey responses that cannot be explained by demographics can be explained by a geographically smoothed process. With a model like this, public opinion in constituencies can be predicted with known population demographics and the values of the geographically smoothed error process over that district.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Smooth National Measurement of Public Opinion Across Boundaries and Levels: A View From the Bayesian Spatial Approach",
"1630263","Collaborative Research: Smooth National Measurement of Public Opinion Across Boundaries and Levels: A View From the Bayesian Spatial Approach","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/15/2016","8/30/2016","Jeff Gill","MO","Washington University","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","8/31/2019","$126,374.00 ","","jgill@wustl.edu","CAMPUS BOX 1054","SAINT LOUIS","MO","CAMPUS BOX 1054, SAINT LOUIS, MO","631304899","3147474134","SBE","1333, 1371","9150","$0.00 ","This research project will measure public opinion in voting constituencies around the United States. The project will provide estimates of opinion in districts with little or no survey data, such as state legislative districts. The project's intellectual merit comes from establishing a new means for measuring public opinion that not only uses survey respondents' answers to polling questions but also incorporates important information about where respondents are located and what that implies about geographic patterns in public opinion. Coupled with population information from the U.S. Census, the project will produce stronger estimates of public sentiment when survey data are sparsely distributed. The investigators will release free software that includes user-friendly functions allowing any citizen to determine public opinion in his or her own district or in districts that have not yet cast any votes, such as proposed congressional districts in a redistricting cycle. The software will allow more sophisticated users to obtain measures for any variable (even if unrelated to public opinion) in relationship to geographic boundaries, which will have extensions to research in public health, epidemiology, economics, sociology, business, and law. The broader impact to society will be that the data and software from this project will provide more information for the news media, the public, and elected officials regarding the outlook of the nation by constituency and locale, thereby providing a better understanding of the American representation process. The project will recruit a diverse group of research assistants that will be trained in this kind of statistical analysis.<br/><br/>Studies relating to public opinion often settle for less-than-ideal data. Frequently, researchers will measure public opinion in the 50 states or the 435 congressional districts by pooling together several surveys taken over time (losing a sense of change over time), using old measures of public opinion (which may not be consistent with current public views), or using presidential vote share to approximate public sentiment (which is prone to error because factors besides ideology affect vote choices). With smaller districts than these, such as state legislative districts, the problem is magnified considerably, because it is rare to have many survey respondents in such a small area. In this project, the investigators ask: How can survey responses and the geographic location of the respondents be used to reliably forecast constituency public opinion? To answer this question, the investigators will use the method of Bayesian universal kriging. This technique fits a training model over survey data to determine how demographic factors shape public opinion and how the portion of survey responses that cannot be explained by demographics can be explained by a geographically smoothed process. With a model like this, public opinion in constituencies can be predicted with known population demographics and the values of the geographically smoothed error process over that district.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Smooth National Measurement of Public Opinion Across Boundaries and Levels: A View From the Bayesian Spatial Approach",
"1525861","SBE: Small: Security as an Everyday Practical Concern","SES","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","9/1/2015","8/21/2015","Paul Dourish","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Sara Kiesler","8/31/2018","$363,823.00 ","","jpd@ics.uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","8060","7434, 7923","$0.00 ","News reports are rife with accounts of data breaches, network security problems, and the dangers of keeping personal information online. Modern life, though, makes it impossible to avoid doing just that. It is almost no longer a choice whether we make purchases, communicate with our bank, apply for government services, or file our taxes online - it is the standard expectation. This research explores how people resolve the tension between these two realities and the practices that people have adopted to balance competing demands upon them.<br/><br/>The goal is to understand how people manage security online, in two ways. The first is in the sense of engaging in technical fixes for potential problems; the second is how they come to terms with the potential risks and develop strategies, accommodations, and justifications for particular ways of working online. Using techniques from anthropology and sociology, this project sets out to understand online security as part of people's everyday lives. The research will have two major outcomes. The first to document the conditions of contemporary digital life, as a contribution to ongoing studies of the impact of digital technology. The second is to provide the basis on which new technologies can more adequately protect people's privacy and security online, and more easily integrate with people's online and offline practices.","crimson_battery","SBE: Small: Security as an Everyday Practical Concern",
"1613164","Self-Exciting Point Processes and Their Applications","DMS","COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS, PROBABILITY","6/1/2016","6/3/2016","Lingjiong Zhu","FL","Florida State University","Standard Grant","Tomek Bartoszynski","5/31/2019","$100,057.00 ","","zhu@math.fsu.edu","874 Traditions Way, 3rd Floor","TALLAHASSEE","FL","874 Traditions Way, 3rd Floor, TALLAHASSEE, FL","323064166","8506445260","MPS","1271, 1263","8060, 8083, 9263","$0.00 ","In mathematics, point processes are pure-jump stochastic processes, which means they are time evolutions that jump at random times and may have random jump sizes. These processes are useful to model the complex systems that arise in the study of sociology, biology, criminology, seismology, finance, and many other fields. The most standard point process is the Poisson process that has independent time increments, which means that future jumps are independent of what has occurred in the past. However, one does not often observe independent time increments in real-world data. For example, as seen during the 2008 financial crisis, credit defaults have a contagion effect -- a default of one company can trigger more companies to default. In social networks, the possibility for users to re-share the content posted by their social connections may cascade across the system. In seismology, after an earthquake hits, the area often experiences aftershocks. In criminology, gang-related violence has the property that a murder or shooting by one gang often provokes retaliation by another gang. All these examples have in common the self-exciting property: an event can trigger more events to come. Self-exciting point processes, the subject of this research project, constitute a class of point processes that can describe such phenomena. Despite their importance in applications, many key central facts are still unknown. This project will investigate the theoretical aspects of self-exciting point processes, as well as their applications. It aims to advance understanding of how complex and large stochastic systems self and mutually excite, interact, cluster, and effect contagion. The results derived from this framework will be applied to better understand the big data sets arising from complex systems in the real world. <br/><br/>More specifically, this project studies a class of self-exciting point processes, with a focus on the Hawkes process and its extensions, including the nonlinear Hawkes process. To date, the limit theorems for this model are restricted to large time asymptotics, and they have been well studied except the multivariate nonlinear case, which will be investigated in this research. The investigator intends to understand the large asymptotics on a fixed time interval, which will be very useful in the context of many applications. These large asymptotics will differ from the Poisson process and phase transitions are anticipated. The investigator will also study the fluctuations and large deviations of the mean-field limit of a multivariate Hawkes process when the dimension is large, which is useful in applications to neural networks, financial networks, and others. The project will also explore the spatial Hawkes processes, the space-time Hawkes processes, and other types of self-exciting point processes that have been suggested for modeling but still lack some key theoretical results. The investigator also aims to study applications of the self-exciting point processes, including theoretical applications to queueing theory and to fitting these models to real world big data sets, which requires a better understanding of some theoretical aspects of the simulations and calibrations of self-exciting point processes.","salmon_battery","Self-Exciting Point Processes and Their Applications",
"1132015","Medium Node: Reducing Error in Computerized Survey Data Collection","SES","","10/1/2011","8/26/2016","Kristen Olson","NE","University of Nebraska-Lincoln","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","12/31/2017","$3,484,525.00 ","Allan McCutcheon, Robert Belli, Leen-Kiat Soh, Kristen Olson, Jolene Smyth","kolson5@unl.edu","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier","Lincoln","NE","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier, Lincoln, NE","685031435","4024723171","SBE","J449, P357","9150","$0.00 ","Rising costs of survey data collection and researchers' growing concerns about the quality of survey data necessitate the development of innovative approaches to data collection. This research will focus on improving survey data collected from computer-assisted methods. The project will include research related to internet data collection and computer-assisted telephone interviews (CATI) data collection systems, along with the variants of these computer-assisted data collection systems. With an overall goal of improving the quality of data derived from surveys, the research will focus on accomplishing three objectives. First, the study will evaluate the use of four diagnostic tools for identifying measurement errors in computer-assisted, interviewer-administered data collection instruments, and it will use these findings to inform visual redesign of common features of computer-assisted, interviewer-administered data collection instruments. Second, the study will evaluate the use of adaptive/responsive designs in which a dynamic modeling of collected data is used to modify the questionnaire as the data are being collected. Third, the study will evaluate the application of calendar- and time diary-based data collection methods to aid in the accuracy of behavioral self-reports by tailoring questions to the needs of individual respondents. The tasks under these objectives will be integrative, allowing researchers to improve survey designs/instruments and enhance data quality by reducing interviewer and respondent burden. The interdisciplinary project team includes experts in statistics, psychology, sociology, survey research and methodology, and computer science. The team will leverage long-term collaborations and partner with industry leaders -- Gallup and Abt SRBI -- as well as Census to accomplish its goal and objectives.<br/><br/>This research will advance scientific knowledge in survey methodology and related fields. Reducing measurement errors in survey data is critical to accurate inference from survey data, and identifying new tools that minimize or reduce measurement errors in survey data will improve conclusions made from surveys across fields. In addition to advancing discovery and understanding in survey data collection, the project will contribute significantly to the training of future survey research professionals through implementation of an education plan designed to: (1) recruit and retain a diverse methodologically-oriented student pool from related social science and statistical disciplines; (2) integrate research into existing and new curricula at UNL; (3) provide all participating students with hands-on research opportunities; and (4) develop student researchers' professional skills. The results will be broadly relevant and broadly disseminated at multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary conferences and workshops, to the federal statistical agencies, and to researchers in the survey industry. This activity is supported by the NSF-Census Research Network funding opportunity.","crimson_battery","Medium Node: Reducing Error in Computerized Survey Data Collection",
"1310049","The Two-Body Problem: An Evaluation of University Partner Accommodation Policies with Implications for Recruitment, Retention, and Promotion of STEM Women","HRD","ADVANCE-PAID, ADVANCE - INSTITUTIONAL TRANSF","9/15/2013","9/12/2013","Jill McCluskey","WA","Washington State University","Standard Grant","Dana Britton","8/31/2017","$449,999.00 ","Tori Byington, Julie Kmec, Benjamin Cowan","mccluskey@wsu.edu","280 Lighty","PULLMAN","WA","280 Lighty, PULLMAN, WA","991641060","5093359661","EHR","7568, 1738","7568","$0.00 ","Despite decades of various efforts meant to increase the number of women in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) disciplines, women in these fields remain under-represented on university faculties. Female faculty in STEM disciplines are more likely than their male counterparts to be partnered with another academic and more likely than men to refuse a job offer if their partners cannot find adequate employment at the same location. In light of such facts, and in an effort to increase the proportion of female faculty in STEM fields, many universities have adopted partner-accommodation policies (PAPs). Until now the prevalence and type of PAPs in U.S. universities and the efficacy of PAPs to recruit productive faculty as well as recruit and retain women STEM faculty has been unknown. This research provides a much needed description of PAPs in U.S. universities, as well as both theoretical and empirical evaluations of PAPs and their implications for the recruitment, retention, and promotion of women in STEM disciplines. The current state of PAPs will be documented and the relationship between PAPs and the gender diversity in STEM fields will be estimated. A rigorous modeling approach enriched with insights from sociology and economics will be developed and tested<br/>with faculty productivity, retention, and promotion data via the collaboration of an information<br/>technology expert who specializes in coordinated academic data collection and analysis. The theoretical model predicts that in any institution other than the most selective, a faculty member who is hired as part of a dual hire couple is likely to be more productive than an individual hire. Preliminary findings at Washington State University (WSU) support the hypothesis that, on average, faculty hired via a PAP program are more productive in terms of publications and grants, less likely to leave the university, and more likely to obtain tenure and promotion than faculty hired outside of formal PAP programs. In addition to WSU, data has been obtained from University of Wyoming. Agreements to acquire data have been made with Virginia Tech and Southern Connecticut State University, with additional requests at four other universities. Data<br/>will also be collected via the internet and randomly selected follow-up phone interviews to assess the existence and type of PAPs and sex composition of STEM fields at 270 institutions. A web-based survey of tenure-line faculty will be administered as part of this proposed project. The survey will focus on faculty?s non-academic life (e.g., parental status, age of children in the home, marital status and timing), race/ethnic background, job search strategies, career and job satisfaction, anticipated mobility, long-term commitment to the university and their experiences, if any, being part of an academic dual-career couple and use of university PAPs. Increasing the representation of women in STEM faculties is a general societal objective. Understanding the impact of PAPs is one potential approach to finding effective ways to increase the number and the success of women on university faculties in technical disciplines.","mauve_battery","The Two-Body Problem: An Evaluation of University Partner Accommodation Policies with Implications for Recruitment, Retention, and Promotion of STEM Women",
"1635381","Enhancing Community Resilience to Floods: A Theoretical Framework of Community Participation in Federal Voluntary Programs","CMMI","INFRAST MGMT & EXTREME EVENTS","9/1/2016","8/25/2016","Abdul-Akeem Sadiq","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","David Mendonca","8/31/2018","$201,772.00 ","Doug Noonan","asadiq@iupui.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","ENG","1638","041E, 042E, 043E, 1057, 1576, CVIS","$0.00 ","There has been a growing interest in using voluntary programs as a salient policy tool for mitigating the effects of various hazards, including those associated with flooding. Yet many federal voluntary programs are finding it hard to increase rates of participation and/or compliance. More broadly, there is no explicit and comprehensive theoretical framework to explain the reasons for such low rates among communities. Accordingly, this work will develop a novel theoretical framework of community participation in federal voluntary programs for the mitigation of flood-related risk by integrating key insights from multiple disciplines such as political science, public administration, environmental economics, nonprofit management and sociology. This research will support policy making in the design and implementation of targeted policies to encourage communities to participate in federal voluntary programs, and improve compliance in areas such as community resilience to floods, environmental protection and adaptation, and critical infrastructure protection.<br/><br/>The scientific objective this work pursues is the development of a theory of participation in voluntary programs for flood risk mitigation, resulting in improved understanding of the factors that motivate communities to participate in federal voluntary programs in general. This study will address this objective in the context of the Community Rating System (CRS) through two guiding research questions: (1) What factors motivate communities to participate in the CRS program? (2) What are the differences between CRS participating communities and non-CRS participating communities with regard to flood risk management practices and contextual factors? The CRS, a Federal voluntary program designed to promote local flood resilience, is an appropriate testbed because only 5 percent of the over 22,000 eligible communities are participating in the CRS. Primary and secondary data sources will be used, including archival and interview data. Prior to conducting the interviews, the study will use Propensity Score Matching techniques to match 50 randomly selected CRS participating communities (treatment group) with 50 non-CRS participating communities (control group). The matching will be based on community-level characteristics such as population size, median housing values, and flood risk. The study's findings are expected to advance scientific understanding of the drivers of community participation in a host of federal voluntary programs.","golden_battery","Enhancing Community Resilience to Floods: A Theoretical Framework of Community Participation in Federal Voluntary Programs",
"1519151","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Son Preference and Sex Selection in Post-Soviet Azerbaijan","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/23/2015","Philip Gorski","CT","Yale University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$8,966.00 ","Candas Pinar","philip.gorski@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Imbalanced sex ratios at birth are a long-standing social problem. An excess of male births not only signals a deep devaluation of women, but it can distort population dynamics for subsequent generations. Prenatal selection of boys requires modern medical technologies such as ultrasound. Still, sex ratios at birth have become skewed in parts of the developing world with no documented history of postnatal discrimination against girls. Why? The purpose of this research is to document how expecting parents viewed the potential benefits and disadvantages of raising sons and daughters, how couples first learned about the availability of sex selection technologies, and how they navigated family planning decisions. The findings of this case study will help us understand the various mechanisms through which prenatal sex selection gains traction. Findings will be disseminated among academics and stakeholders who are invested in generating policies that address imbalanced sex ratios at birth.<br/><br/>This study will use qualitative methods to learn about parents? Sex preferences for children and attitudes toward sex selection. Spouses will be interviewed separately and together as a couple. As demographers project that the diffusion of ultrasound technology will facilitate sex selective practices across the developing world, this study will highlight the moral terrain that individuals navigate before they accept prenatal sex selection as a viable family planning option.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Son Preference and Sex Selection in Post-Soviet Azerbaijan",
"1428646","Collaborative Research: Military Veteran Students' Pathways in Engineering Education","EEC","ENGINEERING EDUCATION","9/1/2014","8/21/2014","Joyce Main","IN","Purdue University","Standard Grant","Elliot Douglas","8/31/2018","$91,914.00 ","","jmain@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","ENG","1340","110E, 8047","$0.00 ","Military veterans hold tremendous promise for expanding and diversifying the engineering workforce. Given the diverse backgrounds of veterans, their increasing numbers, and the growing national demand for engineers, the timing is ideal to study the conditions under which veterans pursue and succeed in engineering education. Student veterans bring valuable assets to their engineering education, but more research is needed to understand their academic and social acculturation into campus life. Therefore, this project aims to (1) identify why veterans pursue bachelor's degrees in engineering, (2) illustrate veteran experiences in engineering education, and (3) advance knowledge on how academic institutions can further support veterans in engineering. This comparative case study of student veterans in engineering across four academic institutions will include interviews of student veterans and key stakeholders, as well as a content analysis of materials and websites related to student veteran issues and concerns. The interdisciplinary research team from engineering, sociology, and education brings expertise on veterans, gender, race/ethnicity, social capital, and persistence in higher education that provides a strong foundation for advancing knowledge in engineering education.<br/><br/>Supporting more veterans to transition to successful careers in engineering is a vital service to the nation. Broadening the participation of veterans in engineering offers the potential to enhance diversity in engineering across multiple dimensions since, compared to civilian students, veterans are more likely to be older, first-generation college, disabled, African-American, or Latino. The study results will provide context and information for various applications, such as: development of new strategies to support student veterans' success, identification of overlooked areas to promote student veterans' participation in engineering, and generation of critical information for development of larger-scale studies for investigating student veterans in engineering. A comprehensive dissemination plan ensures that the study results, particularly the best practices for supporting veterans in engineering, reach diverse audiences interested in student veterans and engineering education. The advisory board includes a variety of stakeholders who have the interest, expertise, and commitment to act on the policy implications of the study.","golden_battery","Collaborative Research: Military Veteran Students' Pathways in Engineering Education",
"1620493","IBSS-L: Procedural Mechanisms and Systemic Inequality in Municipal Law Enforcement","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","9/1/2016","8/25/2016","Phillip Goff","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","2/28/2019","$900,000.00 ","Steven Raphael, John Glaser, Amanda Geller","goff@psych.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","This interdisciplinary research project will expand the scope of the National Justice Database, the nation's first multi-site database to track police behavior such as stops and use of force, and it will assess how common policies and procedures in policing influence racially disparate outcomes. The project will promote the development and validation of a nationally standardized approach to police stop data collection, analysis, and interpretation. It will enhance basic understanding of individual, organizational, and systemic discrimination as well as the interactions among those levels. The project will provide new insights that will inform interventions and strategies to bridge the divide between police officers and the communities they serve. The project will help transform the National Justice Database into a tool that can inform interventions and strategies as well as determine the success rates of strategies and interventions devised by police departments. By studying policies, with a particular focus on those directed toward training, accountability, community-oriented policing, ""hot-spot"" policing, calls for service, and other deployment strategies, the project can help identify which policies are most successful at reducing racial disparities and what conditions moderate that relationship. This knowledge will assist in reducing racial profiling and bolster equitable policing.<br/><br/>This project will examine how common policies in policing influence racially disparate outcomes across formal policy, organizational climate, geospatial, and community-guided police activity domains. This investigators will use an interdisciplinary approach to identify specific mechanisms of policing that can contribute to more or less unequal outcomes. By examining outcomes across these domains, they will provide a large multi-site assessment of how organizational policy produces racially disparate outcomes, with special attention given toward identifying how to reduce those disparities. The investigators will draw heavily on theoretical frameworks from social psychology, economics, and sociology, such as implicit bias, resource efficiency, and social stratification. They will trace causal chains from police department (and related municipal and state) policies (such as training and supervision) through the social and organizational attitudinal climates of departments in order to examine how these policies and climates interact with different deployment approaches (such as ""hot spot"" and proactive policing) to affect outcomes for citizens, especially racially and ethnically discriminatory outcomes in stops, searches, arrests, and excessive use of force. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS-L: Procedural Mechanisms and Systemic Inequality in Municipal Law Enforcement",
"1137327","Collaborative Research: Building Analytical, Synthesis, and Human Network Skills Needed for Macrosystem Science: a Next Generation Graduate Student Training Model Based on GLEON","EF","NAT ECOLOGICAL OBSERVATORY NET, MACROSYSTEM BIOLOGY","2/1/2012","2/3/2016","Kathleen Weathers","NY","Institute of Ecosystem Studies","Standard Grant","Elizabeth R. Blood","1/31/2017","$1,938,626.00 ","Jonathan Cole","weathersk@caryinstitute.org","2801 SHARON TPKE","MILLBROOK","NY","2801 SHARON TPKE, MILLBROOK, NY","125450129","8456777600","BIO","7350, 7959","7218, 7350, 7959, 9232","$0.00 ","Collaborative Research: Building analytical, synthesis, and human network skills needed for<br/>macrosystem science: a next generation graduate student training model based on GLEON<br/><br/>Ecology is on the cusp of new continental-scale science. Enabled by emerging science networks, there is now a tremendous promise for understanding the effects and consequences of global environmental change on ecological systems across regions and among continents. Data from environmental sensor networks, as well as ever-growing, publically available data from research and monitoring programs around the world will underpin this understanding. However, scientific advances require people who can make creative use of technology and data, and who can work together to promote transdisciplinary understanding. Tackling large scale science will require a generation of scientists trained to work in teams to effectively use/create the cyber infrastructure necessary to deliver relevant data, to explore, analyze and synthesize those data using a variety of techniques and tools, and to communicate their findings to the scientific community and the public.<br/><br/>The creation of a Global Lake Ecological Observatory Network (GLEON) Graduate Student Fellows Program (GGSFP) is proposed to build the essential skills necessary for a new generation of scientists to quickly assume productive roles in macrosystem syntheses, and network science organizations. GLEON is an international, grassroots network of scientists, information technology experts, and engineers who have a common goal of building a scalable, persistent network of lake ecology observatories (www.gleon.org). GLEON has over 300 members (95 students) from 34 countries and has multiple data repositories, including near-continuous high frequency data from lakes. This work will combine the extensive resources and experience of GLEON with expertise in pedagogy, organizational sociology, leadership training, and assessment to create an innovative training program. Two cohorts of fellows, along with their advisors, will participate in a series of 5 collaboratories that form its core. Asking and answering continental-scale questions will be the scientific goal. A final workshop with other major network education colleagues will help communicate successes and lessons learned to other Ecological Observatory Networks. Dozens of additional students will participate in shorter training sessions through GLEON all hands meetings. Central to this training program will be (1) development of technical, conceptual and analytical skills critical to carrying out macroscale biology and network science, (2) development of communication skills for collaboration, education and public outreach, (3) active participation in existing networks of people, data, and technologies, and perhaps most important (4) training and guidance by experts in how to build and sustain human networks through pedagogy, organizational structure, and leadership training. Ongoing assessments will be used to refine the program and to measure success and guide future programs.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts: The GLEON GGSFP will develop scientists' capabilities to build and maintain the human infrastructure that is necessary to understand complex environmental system function under global change. Students will emerge from the program with significant skills in working within and utilizing networks of people, infrastructure, data and equipment, and the ability to ask and answer complex, large scale questions. Dozens of students will be engaged through GLEON, and intensive, focused training for two cohorts of ten fellows will be provided. Student cohorts will be selected to reflect gender, cultural and disciplinary diversity balance, following the practices fostered, and lessons learned with the GLEON Graduate Student Association. Coincident with the development of students will be a training exemplar for the ecological community. The outcomes and impact of this program will be extended throughout the community via web-distribution of collaboratory training and through social networking tools. In addition, primary graduate student advisors will experience new training models and tools; fellows will develop a network of mentors in addition to those at their home institution; and fellows and primary advisors, together, will develop outreach materials and/or curricula. Advances in scientific understanding through peer reviewed publications, including those having to do with organizational management will also result. The program will become part of the infrastructure of GLEON, providing new expertise in pedagogy, organizational theory, and leadership training, resulting in continued production of a highly trained work force with the dimensionality required to realize the promise of network science.","azure_battery","Collaborative Research: Building Analytical, Synthesis, and Human Network Skills Needed for Macrosystem Science: a Next Generation Graduate Student Training Model Based on GLEON",
"1653380","Transforming Access and Archiving for Endangered Language Data Through Exploratory Methodologies of Curation","BCS","DEL","9/1/2016","8/23/2016","Anthony Woodbury","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Joan Maling","8/31/2018","$248,039.00 ","Susan Kung","acw@mail.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","SBE","7719","1311, 7719, 7916","$0.00 ","The digital revolution of the 21st Century has brought many advances in technology along with an accompanying increase in the number and size of digital records. This increase has outpaced the existing organizational and preservation practices used by archives, especially where it is the repositories and their staff who organize long-term preservation and access for deposited collections. In 2011 the National Science Foundation issued a mandate that every researcher who applies for these federal research funds must submit a Data Management Plan to explain exactly how the collected research data would be stored, secured, preserved, and accessed. A 2013 memorandum from the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy specified that scientific research collected with federal funds must be made open and available for use by the public. These moves have overwhelmed the existing infrastructures for digital archives, especially those focusing on endangered languages. This project will investigate a potentially transformative methodology and set of best practices to solve this challenge that enables researchers in linguistics and language documentation to organize and curate their own data collections. If successful, results will be broadly useful to endangered language researchers as well as related disciplines like anthropology, sociology and the digital humanities. A transformation that facilitates the access and archiving of endangered language and other social science data would have a major positive impact on dissemination of data and further scholarship through re-use of the data. Exploring a solution that minimizes the financial impact while maximizing open access will offer a high value solution to a major challenge of the digital era.<br/><br/><br/>The Archive of the Indigenous Languages of Latin America (AILLA) is perfectly poised to carry out this project and confront the issue of the logjam of data. AILLA is the foremost example of a regional digital language archive whose holdings are both large and easily accessible. Founded in 2001 at the University of Texas at Austin, AILLA covers all of Latin America, home to several hundred endangered languages and the location of numerous language documentation projects, many funded by NSF and other federal agencies. With portals in both English and Spanish, AILLA holdings are accessible to a wider audience than those of English-portal-only archives. Project activities target a specific set of data collections, first to assess number and size of files and the level of organization for each individual deposit, and then to curate them. To gauge the extent of the data backlog facing the discipline on a wider scale, fellow member archives from the Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archives Network (DELAMAN) will be surveyed regarding their workflows, repository organization, and types of backlogged collections. The information gleaned will be synthesized into a shared set of best practices, metadata, and methodologies, refined in consultation with DELAMAN archivists and disseminated through video tutorials on YouTube in both English and Spanish. The resulting training has the potential to enable digital archives staff to quickly and easily add new data collections to the digital repositories. Faster and easier ingestion of data into digital repositories will both streamline the ingestion processes at digital repositories as well as increase accessibility and discoverability of data to fulfill the open access mandate. Additionally, the project will co-convene a gathering of representatives DELAMAN archives in 2018 at the Institute on Collaborative Language Research (CoLang) to highlight newly developed methodologies and to facilitate connections between archivists and the researchers with unarchived data collections. Archivist and CoPI Susan Smythe Kung will also conduct a CoLang workshop to disseminate results and train researchers. Other deliverables include a presentation at the Linguistic Society of America, designed to reach a broad audience in the language sciences.","crimson_battery","Transforming Access and Archiving for Endangered Language Data Through Exploratory Methodologies of Curation",
"1115057","CNH: Interactive Dynamics of Wildlife Populations, Human Health and Household Wealth in Rural Africa","GEO","DYN COUPLED NATURAL-HUMAN","9/1/2011","8/17/2011","Justin Brashares","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Sarah L. Ruth","8/31/2017","$1,460,000.00 ","Claire Kremen, Matthew Potts, Lia Fernald, Louise Fortmann","brashares@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","GEO","1691","1691, 9169, 9186, 9278","$0.00 ","This project integrates ecology, economics, sociology and public health to illuminate and predict a) how human health and household wealth separately and interactively affect human reliance on biodiversity, and b) how harvested biodiversity impacts household wealth and human health. Data collection occurs at the level of individuals and households at nine rural sites in Ghana, Kenya and Madagascar where, like many regions of the world, communities are economically marginalized and the sustainable use of natural resources is essential to livelihoods, health and survival. The systems-based model developed through this integration across disciplines will provide a framework to compare the relative importance of ecological, socioeconomic or health factors for the sustainability of ecosystems and societies. Furthermore, by quantifying and incorporating nonlinear and coupled feedbacks among human and natural systems this model also will inform efforts to assess the immediate and long term impacts of environmental and social shocks (e.g., climate change, drought, fisheries collapse, disease emergence, social unrest) on resource and livelihood sustainability.<br/><br/>In addition to bringing together a group of researchers who venture beyond disciplinary boundaries to build a new model of integration, this project will have direct and prolonged impacts on education, international collaboration, capacity building, health outcomes, poverty alleviation and sustainability. The project?s commitment to outreach, engagement and capacity building in Africa ensures that it will provide invaluable international experience to U.S.-based students and lifelong collaborations and associations for all individuals and institutions involved in the research effort. Project results and the framework created by this research will be of great practical value to agencies (e.g., USAID, FAO, WHO, UNEP, IUCN) and non-governmental organizations (e.g., WCS, CI, WWF, CARE, CRS) who can provide policy pathways for poverty alleviation, natural resource sustainability, economic development, biodiversity conservation, and the improvement of health outcomes.","charcoal_battery","CNH: Interactive Dynamics of Wildlife Populations, Human Health and Household Wealth in Rural Africa",
"1329162","IBSS: Measuring Justice, Managing Equity: An Interdisciplinary, Multi-Level Approach to Understanding Bias and Equity in Police Stops and Use of Force","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","9/15/2013","8/12/2015","Phillip Goff","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Jeffrey Mantz","8/31/2017","$1,000,000.00 ","John Glaser, Steven Raphael, Amanda Geller","goff@psych.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","This project focuses on what causes racial disparities in policing and how one can measure these disparities using tools taken from sociology, demography, public policy, criminology, psychology, and behavioral economics. Understanding what causes contemporary racial inequality is particularly vexing for researchers across disciplines because the US's steady decline in racial prejudice has not been accompanied by an analogous decline in racial inequality across social institutions (e.g., education, healthcare, employment, criminal justice). This has meant that traditional theories of how racial inequality is produced are insufficient to explain contemporary racial dynamics, requiring new research models to produce new understandings of social inequality. This project capitalizes on existing research collaborations between the Consortium for Police Leadership in Equity and law enforcement departments across the US to produce a mixed-methods approach to understanding what produces racial inequality in complex systems (i.e., policing). In cooperation with approximately 25 law enforcement partners, the investigators will first standardize data collection regarding police stops of pedestrians and motorists as well as police use of force. Second, researchers will collect psychological surveys from officers, aggregating responses by districts within departments. Finally, using social-spatial data, department policy data, aggregate officer attitude data, and data about the relative contributions of ""bad apples"" to department-wide disparity rates, the researchers will address some of the fundamental questions about race in law enforcement as well as the role that local demographics and department-wide culture have in producing racial inequality. The interdisciplinary research team and large number of participating police departments facilitate inquiry across multiple levels of analysis and comparisons across different types of departments, producing a symptomology of unequal outcomes. While previous research has looked at police-citizen encounters (stops, searches, arrests, force, etc.) or measured biases, it has rarely done both together. Consequently, this project will contribute both to scientific understandings of what causes racial inequality in policing and identifying ways practitioners can measure and manage that inequality.<br/><br/>Taken together, the investigators intend this project to promote the development and validation of a nationally standardized approach to police stops and use of force data collection, analysis, and interpretation. The findings will be widely disseminated to police departments, directly informing policy and setting the scientific foundations for national best practices to reduce racial inequality in police outcomes. This project will also provide postdoctoral fellows and graduate students a unique opportunity to examine racial bias in an applied and multidisciplinary context, while exposing them to more complex and diverse data analytic strategies. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: Measuring Justice, Managing Equity: An Interdisciplinary, Multi-Level Approach to Understanding Bias and Equity in Police Stops and Use of Force",
"1632740","EAGER: Social Impact Modeling for Engineered Products","CMMI","ENGINEERING DESIGN AND INNOVAT","4/1/2016","3/14/2016","Christopher Mattson","UT","Brigham Young University","Standard Grant","Richard Malak","3/31/2018","$199,991.00 ","Eric Dahlin","mattson@byu.edu","A-285 ASB","Provo","UT","A-285 ASB, Provo, UT","846021231","8014226177","ENG","1464","067E, 068E, 073E, 7916, 8024, 9150","$0.00 ","Every manufactured product has three areas of impact: economic, environmental, and social impact. Positive impact in all three of these areas leads to sustainable engineering, such that the needs of the present are met, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Unfortunately, the social elements of engineering decisions -- meaning how they affect the day-to-day quality of life of persons -- have not yet been the focus of significant engineering design research. As a result, models to help engineers evaluate the social impact of engineering decisions do not yet exist. This EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) award supports an interdisciplinary study (engineering and sociology) to explore how social impact models can be created for engineered products, how the uncertainty associated with social issues can be included in those models, and how the quality of those models can be judged in a product development setting. Successfully completing the goals of this research will bring US engineers one step closer to sustainable design and engineering.<br/><br/>The concept of social impact is broad, unwieldy, and currently undefined as it relates to engineered products. This research will begin to define the boundaries of social impact as it is influenced by engineering decisions. The research team will perform a number of tasks aimed at accomplishing this, including: (i) identifying social impacts and social influences (i.e., ways social issues can affect the adoption and impact of a product) in the literature and through interactions with industrial partners and their existing products; (ii) integrating and classifying these social impacts and influencers into broad dimensions or issue-areas that are relevant for engineering design; (iii) identifying ethnographic instruments or administrative data for measuring each social impact; and (iv) executing empirical studies to understand modeling formalisms for evaluating the social impact of products. The intellectual merit of the research is to understand the most unknown, uncharacterized, branch of sustainable design -- the social dimension. This research is motivated by the reality that until the social impact of engineered products can be modeled, fully sustainable design is out of reach for the engineering community. Additionally, as engineers become more capable of modeling the social impact of products, the complex tradeoffs between economic, environmental, and social sustainability will begin to dominate the discussion. Successful research by the team will enable product-specific tradeoffs between economic, environmental, and social sustainability to be explored numerically using traditional trade-space exploration methods.","golden_battery","EAGER: Social Impact Modeling for Engineered Products",
"1628509","Testing multi-disciplinary theories of leadership using a cross-cultural database","BCS","POLITICAL SCIENCE, CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY, CROSS-DIRECTORATE ACTIV PROGR","9/1/2016","8/17/2016","Edward Hagen","WA","Washington State University","Standard Grant","Deborah Winslow","8/31/2017","$91,619.00 ","","edhagen@wsu.edu","280 Lighty","PULLMAN","WA","280 Lighty, PULLMAN, WA","991641060","5093359661","SBE","1371, 1390, 1397","040Z, 1371, 1390, 9179","$0.00 ","All societies have leaders. In many societies, such as the United States, there is a hierarchy of leadership positions corresponding to spatial administrative hierarchies, such as of cities, counties, states, and the Federal government. In other societies, such hierarchies do not exist and the rights and duties of leaders are not formally delineated. This global variability has produced an equal variety of scholarly theories; nonetheless, leadership remains poorly understood. For example, why do some leaders use physical threats and aggression to instill fear in their followers, but other leaders attract followers with their skills and knowledge? Some theories emphasize our primate heritage: in groups of primates, physically stronger individuals can dominate physically weaker individuals. This might help explain why some human leaders physically threaten their followers. Other theories point to the importance of leaders in promoting human cooperation: leaders might be needed to maintain cooperation in large groups by organizing the division of labor and punishing free-riders. Alternatively, leaders might be important during warfare and other forms of conflict between groups. Still other theories emphasize the transmission of valuable knowledge from one generation to the next, which might explain why leaders often have superior skills and abilities. These theories have important implications for selecting and training leaders in a broad number of roles, such as in schools; local, state, and federal government agencies; businesses; and numerous other organizations. Unfortunately, none of these theories has been tested systematically across the full range of social types. Therefore, to address this gap, Washington State University anthropologist, Dr. Edward H. Hagen, will test theories of leadership using the Human Relations Area Files (HRAF), a database of millions of digitized pages of books, articles and other documents that describe hundreds of different societies. The HRAF database captures much of the known cultural diversity of human society and can be used for a wide, cross-cultural test of several influential theories of leadership.<br/><br/>The investigator will begin by operationalizing key theories of leadership from anthropology, psychology, sociology, and biology to produce set of variables that will be used to code each ethnographic account of leadership in the HRAF. The coded accounts will then be used to test these theories. Second, the texts discussing the qualities and functions of leaders, and the costs and benefits of leadership for both leaders and followers, will be isolated and coded for analyses providing the first systematic cross-cultural data on these subjects. Third, the HRAF material will be subject to meta-ethnographic and text-mining techniques, such as latent semantic analysis, with the goal of identifying commonalities and differences among the reported cases and cultural models of leadership. The research will give the emerging subdiscipline of evolutionary leadership theory a comprehensive cross-cultural foundation and provide an empirical basis for future evolutionary and cultural models of leadership. The database produced by the project will be made available to other scholars and to the general public. The methodology used will be a model for future investigations using the HRAF. Funding this research also provides a mentored research opportunity for two American graduate students.","crimson_battery","Testing multi-disciplinary theories of leadership using a cross-cultural database",
"1459476","Workshop: Examining Overlooked Issues in Wrongful Convictions","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, ","9/1/2015","7/31/2016","Allison Redlich","NY","SUNY at Albany","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2017","$49,807.00 ","Robert Norris, James Acker, Catherine Bonventre, Allison Redlich","aredlich@gmu.edu","1400 WASHINGTON AVE","Albany","NY","1400 WASHINGTON AVE, Albany, NY","122220100","5184374550","SBE","1372, O437","7556","$0.00 ","It is well established that innocent persons sometimes are arrested and convicted for crimes they did not commit. It is also well established that in many of these wrongful conviction cases, the actual perpetrator went on to commit other crimes, including murders and rapes--crimes which may have been prevented if the wrong person had not been identified and the right person had been prosecuted. Although the exact definition of wrongful conviction and exoneration varies between sources, most scholars agree that the wrongful convictions that have been identified are the mere tip of a much larger iceberg, and likely represent a considerably larger body of cases involving the conviction of innocent persons. If this premise is correct, several limitations necessarily exist concerning our knowledge of the incidence of wrongful convictions, the factors that contribute to miscarriages of justice, and their consequences.<br/><br/>The overarching goal of the workshop is to advance wrongful conviction scholarship by enlisting theoretical perspectives and focusing on issues important to the administration of justice which have not garnered commensurate research attention. The workshop will bring together diverse scholars to discuss important topics that have largely been overlooked or ignored. These ""elephants in the courtroom"" in the study of wrongful convictions include: 1) the intersection of race and miscarriages of justice; 2) how and why guilty pleas, which account for the vast majority of convictions, contribute to miscarriages of justice; 3) wrongful convictions for misdemeanors, which account for roughly 80% of criminal charges; and 4) data needs and methodological constraints important to the scientific study of wrongful convictions and the effective dissemination of research findings for use by policymakers and practitioners. The specific objectives are: (1) To examine wrongful conviction issues that loom large but have not yet received sufficient attention by wrongful conviction scholars and policymakers; (2) To bring together scholars and professionals from varying disciplines (e.g., law, criminal justice, sociology, psychology, political science) to enhance understanding of wrongful convictions and to communicate new theories to test and methods to employ; and (3) To foster the translation of science into practice and policy by generating new programs of research into unexplored issues of wrongful conviction that could ultimately provide insight into the effectiveness and integrity of the criminal justice system. The workshop has the potential for broad impact through the achievement of desired societal outcomes (e.g., a reduction in wrongful convictions and correction of the corresponding problems caused when the truly guilty perpetrators remaining at large), fostering interdisciplinary collaborations, and the dissemination of resulting work products to academic and non-academic audiences.","crimson_battery","Workshop: Examining Overlooked Issues in Wrongful Convictions",
"1302687","CIF: Medium: Collaborative Research: New Approaches to Robustness in High-Dimensions","CCF","COMM & INFORMATION FOUNDATIONS, SIGNAL PROCESSING","7/1/2013","4/16/2015","Martin Wainwright","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Continuing grant","John Cozzens","6/30/2017","$400,000.00 ","","wainwrig@eecs.berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","CSE","7797, 7936","7924, 7936","$0.00 ","Rapid development of large-scale data collection technology has<br/>ignited research into high-dimensional machine learning. For<br/>instance, the problem of designing recommender systems, such as those<br/>used by Amazon, Netflix and other on-line companies, involves<br/>analyzing large matrices that describe users' behavior in past<br/>situations. In sociology, researchers are interested in fitting<br/>networks to large-scale data sets, involving hundreds or thousands of<br/>individuals. In medical imaging, the goal is to reconstruct<br/>complicated phenomena (e.g., brain images; videos of a beating heart)<br/>based on on a minimal number of incomplete and possibly corrupted<br/>measurements. Motivated by such applications, the goal of this<br/>research is to develop and analyze models and algorithms for<br/>extracting relevant structure from such high-dimensional data sets in<br/>a robust and scalable fashion.<br/><br/><br/>The research leverages tools from convex optimization, signal<br/>processing, and robust statistics. It consists of three main thrusts:<br/>(1) Model restrictiveness: Successful methods for high-dimensional<br/>data exploit low-dimensional structure; however, many real-world<br/>problems fall outside the scope of existing models. This proposal<br/>significantly extends the basic set-up by allowing for multiple<br/>structures, leading to computationally efficient algorithms while<br/>eliminating negative effects of model mismatch. (2) Non-ideal data:<br/>Missing data are prevalent in real-world problems, and can cause major<br/>breakdowns in standard algorithms for high-dimensional data. The<br/>second thrust devises relaxations and greedy approaches for these<br/>non-convex problems. (3) Arbitrary Outliers: Gross errors can arise<br/>for various reasons, including fault-prone sensors and manipulative<br/>agents. The third thrust proposes efficient and randomized algorithms<br/>to address arbitrary outliers.","lime_atom","CIF: Medium: Collaborative Research: New Approaches to Robustness in High-Dimensions",
"1307678","Distributed Nonlinear Multi-agent Coordination in Asymmetric Switching Networks: A Sequential Comparison Framework","ECCS","ENERGY,POWER,ADAPTIVE SYS","9/1/2013","7/26/2016","Wei Ren","CA","University of California-Riverside","Standard Grant","Radhakisan S. Baheti","8/31/2017","$421,053.00 ","","ren@ee.ucr.edu","Office of Research","RIVERSIDE","CA","Office of Research, RIVERSIDE, CA","925211000","9518275535","ENG","7607","092E, 9251","$0.00 ","The main objective of the proposed research is to derive a novel sequential comparison framework for distributed nonlinear multi-agent coordination in asymmetric switching networks. The basic idea is that the stability of one system can be inferred by that of another carefully chosen simpler system by suitably choosing scalar nonnegative functions for each system, comparing their derivatives along the trajectories of their corresponding systems, and exploiting structural similarity. It is not required that the nonnegative functions be non-increasing (with negative semidefinite derivatives or the alike) or show up in their derivatives, or one be upper bounded by another. Instead the structural relationship between them and their derivatives plays a role. The comparison can be performed sequentially with simpler and simpler systems until one final system whose stability can be obtained easily with a conventional method. The sequential comparison procedure is particularly promising for tackling the challenges in distributed nonlinear multi-agent coordination with significant complexity by sequentially reducing the complexity.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit: The proposed research consists of three thrusts. The first thrust is to derive a rigorous sequential comparison framework as a novel analysis and design tool for nonlinear systems. The PI will formalize the framework and explore more relaxed conditions and its usage as both analysis and design tools. The second thrust is to address open problems in distributed nonlinear multi-agent coordination in asymmetric switching networks under the sequential comparison framework. The PI will address four challenging problems in asymmetric switching networks, namely, modular design and analysis in distributed control, fully distributed algorithm design with adaptive laws, distributed control of nonlinear passive systems, and distributed control of heterogeneous agents with unknown nonlinear dynamics. The third thrust is experimental demonstration. The novelty of the sequential comparison framework is three fold. First, the framework does not require nonnegative functions to be non-increasing and hence allows the choice of collective nonnegative functions characterizing group behavior independent of the network topology for concluding convergence through sequential comparison, rending them suitable to tackle asymmetric switching networks. Second, the framework can sequentially reduce the complexity in multi-agent systems through comparison with simpler systems in a sequential manner. Third, the framework makes good use of existing results through comparison to infer new results.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts: Numerous civilian, homeland security, and military applications involving multiagent systems and fields related to stability theory and networked systems including mathematics, economics, biology, sociology, and physics will benefit from the proposed research. The research results from the project will be used for curriculum enrichment and development in multi-agent systems. The PI will develop a new graduate course on multi-agent systems. With UCR being one of America?s few research-intensive Hispanic serving institutions, the PI will actively encourage under-represented students to participate in his research.","golden_battery","Distributed Nonlinear Multi-agent Coordination in Asymmetric Switching Networks: A Sequential Comparison Framework",
"1359223","REU Site: Undergraduate Research in Collaborative Data Visualization Applications","ACI","RSCH EXPER FOR UNDERGRAD SITES, EXP PROG TO STIM COMP RES","3/1/2014","4/26/2016","Vetria Byrd","SC","Clemson University","Standard Grant","Sushil Prasad","2/28/2018","$265,988.00 ","","vlbyrd@purdue.edu","230 Kappa Street","CLEMSON","SC","230 Kappa Street, CLEMSON, SC","296340001","8646562424","CSE","1139, 9150","9150, 9250","$0.00 ","This award funds a new CISE REU Site to provide a novel approach to broadening participation in visualization, while accelerating discovery and progress. Visualization plays a significant role in the exploration and understanding of data across all disciplines with a universal goal: gaining insight into the complex relationships that exist within the data. A multi-disciplinary team of faculty and visualization staff plans to establish a site that focuses on research across several domains including Computer Science, Genetics and Biochemistry, Geophysics, Sociology, Molecular Modeling and Simulation, Inorganic Chemistry, Social Media, Parks Recreation Tourism Management, Biological Sciences, and Digital Humanities.<br/><br/>The overall objectives of the REU Site are to broaden participation in visualization, to explore visualization jointly with research projects while accelerating discovery and progress, and to utilize visualization as a conduit for collaboration. The REU Site achieves these objectives by: exploring visualization in parallel with research, involving students directly in data-driven visualization with an interdisciplinary aspect, providing training in tools and technologies that are common in visualization research, inspiring students to consider visualization as a career path and pursue visualization at the graduate level, and targeting participation of women and underrepresented groups, as well as students from institutions with limited cyberinfrastructure resources.","lime_battery","REU Site: Undergraduate Research in Collaborative Data Visualization Applications",
"1535370","Collaborative Research: STEM Training, Employment in Industry, and Entrepreneurship","DGE","Core R&D Programs","9/15/2015","9/16/2015","Jason Owen-Smith","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Earnestine P. Easter","8/31/2019","$835,535.00 ","","jdos@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","EHR","7980","","$0.00 ","Ohio State University and the University of Michigan are investigating factors that affect graduate student pathways to non-academic careers. The interdisciplinary research team examines two research questions: (1) What are the pathways that graduate students take into non-academic careers? and (2) What is the role of their training environments, including faculty sponsors and networks, in guiding those pathways? To investigate these questions, the researchers will develop a data infrastructure that links the STAR METRICS data to the Survey of Earned Doctorates/Survey of Doctoral Recipients and the Census Bureau Business Register to measure the likelihood that a graduate student would enter a particular career and the subsequent success in following that career path. They explore the relationships between the choice of career pathway and a range of measures of the graduate training environment and examine the links between graduate training and entrepreneurship and industry careers by estimating the causal links between graduate training and entrepreneurship and employment in industry. The project will develop best practices for making these links to study entrepreneurship and industry employment, document the complex pathways for academic-industry engagement, pave the way for an exploratory analysis of the careers of postdocs and non-PhD completers, and lay the foundation for new theoretical models to guide practice. The project also will help inform future national surveys by reporting data and suggesting items that could enable more useful workforce trend analyses. <br/><br/>The primarily empirical research design is guided by a range of theoretical paradigms, including student identity theory or student socialization research, life course theory from sociology, career development theory, and human capital theory from economics. The researchers will apply a wide range of statistical models to test seven theories. These range from a human capital-based conjecture that experience working on risky and/or interdisciplinary research projects prepare students for jobs in the rapidly-changing, high growth (and high volatility) industries that are engines of growth for the nation?s new economy, to a conjecture of socialization and information transmission through networks where connections to industry and entrepreneurship through advisors, peers, and suppliers facilitate entry into industry and entrepreneurship careers. At the same time, the researchers expect new theories to emerge from their exploration of the rich new data that will be constructed. This iterative process will be enhanced by interactions with the expert advisory board, which includes many members of the STEM policy community, who will inform the implementation of the project.<br/><br/>The project is supported by the ECR program that emphasizes fundamental STEM education research that generates foundational knowledge in the field. Investments are made in critical areas that are essential, broad and enduring: STEM learning and STEM learning environments, broadening participation in STEM, and STEM workforce development. ECR supports the accumulation of robust evidence to inform efforts to understand, build theory to explain, and suggest intervention and innovations to address persistent challenges in STEM interest, education, learning and participation.","mauve_battery","Collaborative Research: STEM Training, Employment in Industry, and Entrepreneurship",
"1407537","Non-gaussian graphical models via additive conditional independence and nonlinear dimension reduction","DMS","STATISTICS","7/15/2014","7/8/2014","Bing Li","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Gabor J. Szekely","6/30/2017","$210,000.00 ","","bing@stat.psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","Statistical networks and graphical models are two of the most important components of contemporary data analysis. They have important applications in Genomics, sociology, machine learning, study of the internet, and homeland security. Current statistical graphical models require strong assumptions in order to be computationally feasible for estimating large-scale networks but these assumptions also severely limit their applications. In this project the principal investigator will lay out the groundwork for developing a new class of statistical graphical models that do not rely on these strong assumptions but at the same time retain the computational simplicity of the current models. The new class of models will greatly expand the scope and capability of current methods for analyzing networks that are becoming increasingly prevalent in modern applications.<br/><br/>In this project the principal investigator will develop a class of nonparametric graphical models that avoid the Gaussian or copula Gaussian assumptions. This new class of models can handle intrinsically nonlinear interactions that cannot be captured by a copula Gaussian model. A fully nonparametric approach, however, would involve high-dimensional kernels, which perform poorly due to the ""curse of dimensionality."" This disadvantage is especially noticeable for large-scale networks. For this reason, the principal investigator will introduce two dimension reduction mechanisms into the nonparametric approach: additive conditional independence and nonlinear sufficient dimension reduction. Additive conditional independence is a new statistical relation that resembles the Gaussian interaction structure without being restricted by the Gaussian (or copula Gaussian) distributional assumption. The graphical models based on additive conditional independence can capture intrinsically nonlinear interactions and at the same time avoid high-dimensional kernels. The second mechanism incorporates ideas and techniques from the most recent advances in nonlinear sufficient dimension in statistics and machine learning into the graphical models to reduce the dimension of the mapping kernels.","salmon_battery","Non-gaussian graphical models via additive conditional independence and nonlinear dimension reduction",
"1632724","Facilitating Access to Pavlov's Twenty Years of Objective Study of the Higher Nervous Activity of Animals","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2016","8/10/2016","Olga Yokoyama","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","8/31/2017","$87,427.00 ","","olga@humnet.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","SBE","7603","1353","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This award provides seminal support for a research infrastructure project to translate into English I. P. Pavlov's most important contribution to psychology, first published in 1923 as Twenty Years of Objective Study of the Higher Nervous Activity of Animals. The project will culminate in uploading the complete text to eScholarship and indexing it in WorldCat, making the entire work available in English for the first time. The investigator is an experienced linguist and translator with medical background and a track record of success in large-scale translation projects. The final product will include two introductions, one by an American psychologist and the other by an American historian of science. Producing a translation of Pavlov's most influential piece of work and rendering it accessible to and searchable by anyone with access to the internet will be of potential interest not only to scholars and specialists (psychologists, historians, translation scholars, learning/teaching specialists, or therapists), but may also inspire young scholars and students, as well as lay persons interested in the implications scientific ideas have for common life. The proposed resource will show readers the controlled step-by-step experiments in which some of the 20th century's most seminal scientific knowledge was produced, and will potentially stimulate public scientific literacy and public engagement with science. Many of Pavlov's papers describing experiments with dogs' salivation end, unexpectedly, in paragraphs that informally bring in parallels with human psychology and try to address the social condition and human suffering. These turns reflect Pavlov's concern with the vexing question for all scientists today: What is the relevance of basic science to the public at large? <br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>The potential of the proposed activity to advance knowledge can be judged on the basis of the importance of having access to an accurate rendering of the work by the 1904 Nobel Laureate Ivan Pavlov. Despite his exceptionally high ranking in both physiology and psychology today (e.g., in a survey of professional opinion he ranks with Freud and Piaget among the most frequently named ""greatest psychologists of the 20th century in the overall field of psychology""), the existing translations of Pavlov's seminal work into English are incomplete in coverage and flawed in quality. Moreover, they are not indexed, searchable, or available online. Anglophone scholars, students and the general public deserve better. The proposed project would address the problems of coverage, translation quality, and accessibility. The resulting exposure may well lead to a re-evaluation of Pavlov's ideas in several sub-fields of psychology, and further in applied fields related to them. As long as we believe that change in societal and individual attitudes is ultimately related to learning, wide access to an accurate presentation of Pavlovian conditioning principles would also benefit our approach to psychopathology, social psychology, and sociology in general.","crimson_battery","Facilitating Access to Pavlov's Twenty Years of Objective Study of the Higher Nervous Activity of Animals",
"1645193","EAGER: Citizen Science for Infrastructure Monitoring at the Neighborhood Level","CMMI","SPECIAL INITIATIVES","9/1/2016","8/10/2016","Nasir Gharaibeh","TX","Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station","Standard Grant","David Mendonca","8/31/2017","$100,000.00 ","Michelle Meyer, Jennifer Horney, Philip Berke, Shannon Van Zandt","ngharaibeh@civil.tamu.edu","TEES State Headquarters Bldg.","College Station","TX","TEES State Headquarters Bldg., College Station, TX","778454645","9798477635","ENG","1642","043Z, 1638, 7916","$0.00 ","In the pursuit of safe and reliable infrastructure systems, monitoring data are collected to assess the condition, usage, and in-service performance of these systems. For large-scale infrastructure, monitoring data are often collected using a variety of sensor technologies and periodic field inspections. For neighborhood scale infrastructure, however, these data remain limited in both quantity and quality. While participatory data sources provide an opportunity for producing these data, very little is known about how and when to collect valid and reliable participatory data in lieu of, or in addition to, physical measurements. Through support of this award, fundamental research will be pursued to design and test protocols and tools for collecting infrastructure monitoring data at the neighborhood level by volunteer citizen scientists. This EArly-concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) project will contribute to understanding the factors that influence the reliability and validity of citizen-generated infrastructure monitoring data, with focus on stormwater infrastructure. Successful implementation of protocols and tools for collecting infrastructure monitoring data by residents would accelerate the production of high-quality data at the neighborhood level, benefiting multiple stakeholders, including local communities, infrastructure engineers, urban planners, and researchers. This is especially impactful in neighborhoods with socially and physically vulnerable populations, such as those in Houston where this study will take place. This research will advance the scholarly momentum of an interdisciplinary team of investigators from civil engineering, urban planning, sociology, and public health to better understand how and when to engage members of the general public in collecting infrastructure monitoring data.<br/><br/>The questions that guide the design of this study are: (1) What factors influence the reliability and validity of citizen-generated infrastructure monitoring data at the neighborhood level and (2) How can our understanding of these factors be employed to develop protocols and tools for collecting high-quality infrastructure monitoring data by members of the general public? Draft protocols and tools will be designed, tested in field trials, validated, and refined in an iterative process. Neighborhoods in the Houston metropolitan area will be used as the study area, with focus on stormwater infrastructure. The field trials will include the collection of observational data (collected by citizen scientists), measurement-based data (collected by engineering professionals), and feedback data (gathered through workshops and a closing questionnaire). The engineering professionals will use a mobile laser scanning and camera unit to collect the measurement-based data (e.g., location, geometry, and condition of stormwater drainage assets). Through this iterative process, we will identify the methodological issues in citizen science data (as they apply to stormwater infrastructure monitoring) and maximize the fidelity of the protocols and tools. New empirical data, obtained from the field trials, will enable testing hypotheses about the agreement between data collected by citizen scientists (observational dataset) and data collected by professionals (measurement-based dataset), and incorporating the participants perspective in the data collection process (feedback dataset).","golden_battery","EAGER: Citizen Science for Infrastructure Monitoring at the Neighborhood Level",
"1644900","Travel Support for Participants in the 2016 New Security Paradigms Workshop","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","7/1/2016","7/6/2016","Matt Bishop","CA","University of California-Davis","Standard Grant","Deborah Shands","6/30/2017","$10,000.00 ","","mabishop@ucdavis.edu","OR/Sponsored Programs","Davis","CA","OR/Sponsored Programs, Davis, CA","956186134","5307547700","CSE","8060","7434, 7556","$0.00 ","This award will support student travel to the 2016 New Security Paradigms Workshop to be held in Colorado in September 2016. The New Security Paradigms Workshop (NSPW) provides a stimulating, safe, and highly interactive forum for innovative approaches to computer security. NSPW encourages graduate students and junior faculty to examine long-held ideas within computer security. It also strongly encourages non-computer security experts from economics, sociology, psychology, and other disciplines to bring their expertise to bear on computer security paradigms. The support from NSF will be used to sponsor travel expenses for graduate students and junior faculty to attend the workshop. Supporting junior researchers' travel to attend professional conferences and workshops is a very important mission of the NSF. Broader impacts include training the next generation of researchers in this important research area.","lime_battery","Travel Support for Participants in the 2016 New Security Paradigms Workshop",
"1636536","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Youth Homelessness: Street Kids in the Urban South","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2016","6/1/2016","Debra Umberson","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","5/31/2017","$9,771.00 ","Brandon Robinson","umberson@mail.la.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Youth Homelessness: Street Kids in the Urban South<br/><br/>LGBTQ youth are estimated to make up at least 40 percent of the youth homeless population in the United States, despite being only about 5-8 percent of the U.S. youth population. In conducting interviews and ethnographic field research, this study examines how LGBTQ become homeless, their specific needs, and their interactions with other people as being both LGBTQ and homeless. Through uncovering the day-to-day experiences and distinct issues affecting LGBTQ homeless youth, this project will examine how gender and sexuality within the contexts of poverty affect how young people become and experience homelessness. This research also adds a new spatial context - the urban South - to the literature on LGBTQ people more generally. <br/><br/>The ""new homelessness"" is a visible marker of the poverty and growing income inequality that has followed the neoliberal economic re-structuring of society. Little research examines how larger social forces that marginalize LGBTQ people may also contribute to the new homelessness, in particular, the new youth homelessness. This gap is especially critical because LGBTQ homeless youth disproportionately make up the youth homeless population in the United States. In conducting ethnographic fieldwork at a homeless youth drop-in center and at a LGBTQ youth homeless shelter, this study asks about the particular processes associated with youth homelessness, gender, and sexuality today. Compared to the Northeast, West coast, and Midwest where most studies on LGBTQ life take place, this study occurs in a Southern state where there are less favorable views of LGBTQ civil rights, and a lack of protections for LGBTQ people in the workplace, in housing, or in other accommodations. This lack of support for LGBTQ and low-income people provides an under-examined, social and economic climate in which to study youth homelessness, gender and sexuality in the urban South.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Youth Homelessness: Street Kids in the Urban South",
"1541099","CAREER: Large Scale Stochastic Optimization and Statistics","DMS","STATISTICS","2/1/2015","7/14/2015","Philippe Rigollet","MA","Massachusetts Institute of Technology","Continuing grant","Gabor J. Szekely","6/30/2017","$208,669.00 ","","rigollet@math.mit.edu","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21394301","6172531000","MPS","1269","1045","$0.00 ","Stochastic optimization offers a general framework to study many fundamental statistical problems related to prediction such as regression, classification and density estimation. Furthermore, it is a natural framework to import powerful algorithms from numerical optimization, especially for large scale problems. The broad goal of this project is to understand the fundamental interactions between statistics and stochastic optimization. To accomplish this task the investigator (a) identifies new problems from statistics, especially with complex structure, that can be recast as stochastic optimization problems; (b) develops new algorithms that optimally and efficiently solve large scale problems; (c) determines essential characteristics of the problems that govern the performance of algorithms and their fundamental limitations; and (d) explores peripheral problems of stochastic optimization including stochastic optimization with stochastic constraints and stochastic optimization with limited feedback. <br/><br/>The information era has witnessed an explosion in the collection of data and large scale data sets are ubiquitous in a wide range of applications including biology, networks, environmental science, sociology and marketing. This results in an acute need of new statistical methods to analyze these data sets of unprecedented size. While techniques from numerical optimization can be used in several scenarios, their analysis remains largely dissociated from that of the statistical task at hand. This research aims at providing a unified treatment of a number of large scale problems emerging from statistical learning and from optimization under uncertainty in general. Therefore, the project will not only result in new and effective algorithms, but also in a novel theoretical framework that supports the analysis of stochastic optimization problems and enables further improvements of said algorithms.","salmon_atom","CAREER: Large Scale Stochastic Optimization and Statistics",
"1330988","Food Security and Parenting Practice in the Urban U.S.","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY","9/1/2013","8/30/2013","Jennifer Patico","GA","Georgia State University Research Foundation, Inc.","Standard Grant","Jeffrey Mantz","2/28/2017","$90,743.00 ","","jpatico@gsu.edu","G76Dahlberg Hall 30 Courtland St","Atlanta","GA","G76Dahlberg Hall 30 Courtland St, Atlanta, GA","303023999","4044133500","SBE","1331, 1390","1331, 1390, 9179, SMET","$0.00 ","Jennifer Patico of the Georgia State University will investigate how debates about food security unfold in and across households in urban communities. Social scientists agree that contemporary Americans tend to imbue both eating and child-rearing with strong moral meanings. At the same time, they observe the ""time bind"" faced by double-earner families, whereby parents balance ever-lengthening professional work days with the labor of housekeeping and child-raising. The charged issue of children's food provides a strategic opportunity to examine standards for parental care and how these are negotiated under conditions of material and/or temporal strain in the United States. Based in an economically and racially diverse area of urban Atlanta, the study more specifically investigates how parental and institutional concerns about children's food might reinforce (or challenge) social inequalities by providing an arena in which the experiences, knowledge and values of different groups are communicated and/or evaluated. In-depth interviews will be held with adults from a total of sixty households that reflect the economic diversity of a local elementary and middle school. Other ethnographic methods include the observation of food-related practices within a select sample of individual households. <br/><br/>This study will illuminate how measures intended to improve the health of children - such as public service announcements or guidelines for ""healthy"" school snacks - are perceived and managed by caretakers and school employees. Further, it will show how these measures can have complex, unintended effects on the ground. <br/><br/>Children's food has been framed as an American ""crisis"" in recent years; it is a topic of active debate in the mass media, in public health research, and at the community level. These data will be of critical importance to public health professionals, school administrators, parent activists, community organizers and others who seek to mobilize concern around children's nutrition and find effective ways to shape community initiatives.","crimson_battery","Food Security and Parenting Practice in the Urban U.S.",
"1416752","Better Fast Algorithms for Large and High-Dimensional Datasets: Sparse Fourier Transforms and Fast Density Estimators","DMS","OFFICE OF MULTIDISCIPLINARY AC, CDS&E-MSS, CDS&E","8/1/2014","7/26/2014","Mark Iwen","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Leland M. Jameson","7/31/2017","$263,600.00 ","","markiwen@math.msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","MPS","1253, 8069, 8084","7433, 8084, 9263","$0.00 ","The size, scope, and importance of large, high-dimensional data sets have been accelerating at tremendous rates over the last several decades fueled by the rapid proliferation of computers and communication technology. As a result, analyzing massive amounts of high-dimensional data is becoming increasingly necessary in a wide array of disciplines including molecular biology, genomics, finance, marketing, economics, sociology, and epidemiology, among others. The need for fast computational techniques that can both rapidly and accurately process, compress, and reduce huge datasets without losing important information has never been greater.<br/><br/>This research will develop fast computational methods, supported by rigorous theoretical guarantees, for two important types of problems encountered during the analysis of such large and high dimensional data sets: (i) approximating discrete Fourier transforms of big data sets, and (ii) estimating the statistical properties of large and high-dimensional data. The difficulty in solving both sets of problems stems from the sheer size and complexity of the input data sets, which limits the applicability of existing computational methods. In both cases, new and computationally tractable algorithms will be developed that take advantage of hidden simplifying structure (Fourier sparsity in the first case, and intrinsic low-dimensional geometric structure in the second) that often exists in large and high-dimensional data sets in practice.","salmon_battery","Better Fast Algorithms for Large and High-Dimensional Datasets: Sparse Fourier Transforms and Fast Density Estimators",
"1461355","Structural Equation Modeling with a Small Number of Observations (N) and a Large Number of Variables (p)","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","7/1/2015","4/3/2015","Ke-Hai Yuan","IN","University of Notre Dame","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","6/30/2018","$349,998.00 ","Ying Cheng, Zhiyong Zhang","kyuan@nd.edu","940 Grace Hall","NOTRE DAME","IN","940 Grace Hall, NOTRE DAME, IN","465565708","5746317432","SBE","1333","9179","$0.00 ","This research project will develop structural equation modeling (SEM) methodology that can be applied to data with a small number of observations (N) and a large number of variables (p). The new methods will broaden the applicability of SEM to important areas of research where the number of observations may be quite small, such as data from hard-to-reach populations. Data and methods for data analysis are key to advancing science. SEM is used by many disciplines, including psychology, education, sociology, management, health sciences, and medicine. Existing SEM methodology requires the number of observations to be proportional to the square of the number of variables. However, it may be difficult to collect the large number of observations required by SEM to reach reliable conclusions. The new methodology is expected to yield reliable results when N is either larger than 30 or two times the number of variables. The research has the potential to both improve data analyses and reduce data collection costs. The methods will be implemented in freely available, user-friendly software.<br/><br/>With small N and/or large p, existing methods for SEM face four major practical issues: (1) near singular sample covariance matrices and the related issue of nonconvergence in parameter estimation; (2) inefficient parameter estimates with non-normal data; (3) unreliable model test statistics; and (4) inaccurate standard errors. The project will address the first issue by adding a proper diagonal matrix to the sample covariance matrix or the ridge method, an approach that has been shown to be effective. The other issues will be addressed by a new method termed empirical modeling, in which the empirical behavior of a test statistic/standard error is modeled under a variety of conditions. By combining empirical modeling and the ridge method, the project is expected to produce efficient parameter estimates and reliable model inference.","crimson_battery","Structural Equation Modeling with a Small Number of Observations (N) and a Large Number of Variables (p)",
"1310002","Optimality Landscapes and Exploratory Data Analysis","DMS","ADVANCES IN BIO INFORMATICS, STATISTICS, CROSS-EF ACTIVITIES, MSPA-INTERDISCIPLINARY","8/1/2013","7/14/2013","Andrew Nobel","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Gabor J. Szekely","7/31/2017","$270,000.00 ","Sreekalyani Bhamidi","nobel@email.unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","MPS","1165, 1269, 7275, 7454","8007","$0.00 ","The investigators and their students study the development, implementation and application of iterative search procedures for unsupervised exploratory data analysis. In particular, they develop statistically principled procedures for discovering patterns in high dimensional data, including biclustering and correlation mining of genomic data, and community detection in complex networks arising in computational sociology and public policy. Complementing the methodological component of the research, the investigators and their students also study the development of general theoretical tools to analyze iterative data mining procedures, and the properties of their associated local optima. They develop probabilistic tools, including new variants of Stein's method for normal approximation and new Gaussian comparison theorems, to understand asymptotic properties of typical local optima, and the dependence of these optima under different assumptions on the underlying signal, beginning with the null setting in which only noise is present. Their research is carried out in the context of ongoing collaborations with UNC faculty in the Medical School, and in the Departments of Genetics, Public Policy, and Mathematics. <br/><br/>The broad subject of the proposal is the development, theoretical analysis, and application of exploratory methods for large data sets. By exploratory methods, we mean those that search large data sets for significant patterns or configurations that may be of organizational or scientific interest. Examples include patterns that may distinguish types of a disease, that help target a drug or assess its efficacy, and patterns that identify among a large number of people a smaller community who frequently exchange text messages. In many cases, a numerical score is used to assess the potential importance of a pattern, and attention then turns to finding a pattern with a large score. Our primary interest is in search procedures that begin with a candidate pattern, then search for closely related patterns in the data that have higher score, repeating this procedure until they reach a pattern where no further (local) improvements are possible. Procedures of this sort are routinely applied in large data problems where finding the ``best'' pattern (the pattern with the largest score) is computationally prohibitive. We are developing and applying new, statistically based search procedures for several important tasks arising in the exploratory analysis of large data sets, including data mining and community detection. At the same time, we are developing fundamental theory to justify and inform the application of the iterative search procedures. Our work is being carried out in the context of ongoing collaborations with UNC faculty in the Medical School, and in the Departments of Genetics, Public Policy, and Mathematics.","salmon_battery","Optimality Landscapes and Exploratory Data Analysis",
"1318633","Accurate and Efficient Algorithms for Computing Exponentials of Large Matrices with Applications","DMS","COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS","7/15/2013","7/2/2013","Qiang Ye","KY","University of Kentucky Research Foundation","Standard Grant","Junping Wang","6/30/2017","$189,971.00 ","","qye3@uky.edu","109 Kinkead Hall","Lexington","KY","109 Kinkead Hall, Lexington, KY","405260001","8592579420","MPS","1271","9150, 9263","$0.00 ","Matrix exponential is an important linear algebra tool that has a wide range of applications. Its efficient computation is a classical numerical linear algebra problem that is of considerable importance to many fields. This research project is concerned with numerical algorithms for computing exponentials of large matrices. The main objectives are: (1) to develop efficient preconditioning techniques for computing the product of the exponential of a matrix with a vector, and (2) to develop accurate and efficient algorithms to compute some selected entries of the exponential of an essentially nonnegative matrix. The proposed research will advance theory and algorithms for matrix exponentials in the setting of iterative methods for large scale problems. It will systemically address the problems of preconditioning and entrywise relative accuracy that are critically important in certain applications. The resulting algorithms will improve the existing ones in computational efficiency and/or accuracy. At the conclusion of this project, robust MATLAB implementations of the algorithms developed will be made publicly available.<br/><br/>The algorithms proposed in this project will provide new computational tools that are sufficiently efficient and/or accurate to meet the challenges posed by many large scale application problems. A fully developed efficient preconditioning technique would significantly advance the state of the art in solving large scale initial value problems, which are used to model and solve a large number of practical problems in science and engineering. The proposed algorithms for accurately computing selected entries of the exponential of a large essentially nonnegative matrix would remove the numerical accuracy issue that may present a significant challenge to the traditional algorithms. The need for entrywise accurate computations arise in continuous-time Markov chain models, where the entries represent transition probabilities, and in large complex networks, where the entries define various network properties such as connectivity. Thus, the new algorithms will be applicable to a wide range of problems that involves continuous-time Markov chains or complex networks. They include problems from genetics, sociology, neurology, biological networks, social networks and homeland security, telecommunication networks, and computer networks.","salmon_battery","Accurate and Efficient Algorithms for Computing Exponentials of Large Matrices with Applications",
"1262814","CI-ADDO-EN: Smart Home in a Box: Creating a Large Scale, Long Term Repository for Smart Environment Technologies","CNS","COMPUTING RES INFRASTRUCTURE","8/1/2013","7/19/2013","Diane Cook","WA","Washington State University","Standard Grant","Sylvia J. Spengler","7/31/2017","$900,000.00 ","","cook@eecs.wsu.edu","280 Lighty","PULLMAN","WA","280 Lighty, PULLMAN, WA","991641060","5093359661","CSE","7359","7359, 7364, 7918","$0.00 ","There is considerable current interest in developing smart environment technologies. Such efforts present research challenges in, and integration of research outcomes from, diverse disciplines including artificial intelligence, pervasive computing, robotics, interfaces, middleware, and sensor networks. The lack of availability of large-scale sharable data sets from smart environments is a major stumbling block for rapid advances in this area. Against this background, this project aims to develop and deploy a data and tool repository needed by the smart environment research community.<br/><br/>The anticipated results of this infrastructure project include 1) a streamlined, do-it-yourself smart home kit, 2) a web interface to upload, access, and annotate smart environment data, 3) meta data including functional assessment scores and energy usage, and 4) software tools to recognize, visualize, and analyze home-based behaviors. The investigators aim to assess the impact of the resulting repository (CASAS) using measures such as number and diversity of researchers utilizing the repository, number of datasets and tools contributed to the repository, research, education, and commercial advances related to the repository, and publication citations to the repository.<br/><br/>Broader impacts of the project include (i) the do-it-yourself smart home toolkit, data sets and software tools that enable research and educational efforts by a large community of researchers in artificial intelligence, pervasive computing, robotics, interfaces, middleware, and sensor networks; (ii) enhanced opportunities for researchers in cognitive psychology, gerontology, and sociology to contribute to interdisciplinary research in smart environments; and (iii) enhanced research-based training opportunities for students from underrepresented groups. The datasets, software tools and educational materials that result from this work will be made available as part of the CASAS repository at http://ailab.wsu.edu/casas/.","lime_battery","CI-ADDO-EN: Smart Home in a Box: Creating a Large Scale, Long Term Repository for Smart Environment Technologies",
"1416575","IBSS-Ex: Relationships Among Parenting Approaches, Home Environments, and the Development of Children's Skills","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","8/1/2014","7/31/2014","Ariel Kalil","IL","National Opinion Research Center","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","12/31/2016","$247,501.00 ","Sean Reardon, Rebecca Ryan, Kathleen Ziol-Guest","akalil@uchicago.edu","1155 E. 60th Street","Chicago","IL","1155 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL","606372745","7732566000","SBE","8213","8213, 8605","$0.00 ","This interdisciplinary research project will examine how differences in parenting between higher- and lower-income households have changed over time and whether such changes account for the growing achievement gaps in children from different sets of households. The investigators will bring together expertise in theory and methods from sociology, economics, developmental psychology, and public policy analysis to answer a set of scientifically important and policy relevant questions. The project will yield new insights into the changing forms of parenting by assessing the degree to which changing gaps in children's skills are a function of differences in the way in which parents' conduct in the home environment affects the development of both cognitive and non-cognitive skills in children. Understanding this phenomenon will help answer important questions about the origins of the growing gap in children's achievement and attainments as well as the association between economic inequality and children's opportunities. Project findings therefore should help assess the value of a range of policy approaches, including the Earned Income Tax Credit that redistributes income and relies on parents to use the added income to promote their children's development; the Nurse Family Partnership that teaches high-risk parents about positive parenting practices and the nature of early childhood development; instruments like Pell Grants that encourage would-be parents to acquire post-secondary schooling; and pre-kindergarten programs that provide educational services directly to young children. By identifying the comparative roles of family income, parent education, and home environments in promoting child well-being, the project will help to point to the most effective potential approaches for addressing the increasing school readiness gaps between lower- and higher-income children.<br/><br/>This project will employ descriptive and econometric methods using data from three large-scale nationally representative studies covering the period from 1986 to 2012. The investigators will document trends in the gaps in children's cognitive and non-cognitive skills using three national data sets that collectively span 20 years. They will document socioeconomic-based gaps in children's home environments over time, assessing a range of variables, including measures of parents' time inputs, emotional support, and provision of a physical environment conducive to children's learning and emotional well-being. The investigators will test whether the importance of the home environment for children's cognitive and non-cognitive skills has increased over time, and they will employ a decomposition analysis to assess how much of the growing skills gaps between advantaged and disadvantaged children can be explained by growing gaps in their home environments or by a changing relationship between the home environment and these child development outcomes. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS-Ex: Relationships Among Parenting Approaches, Home Environments, and the Development of Children's Skills",
"1555450","Collaborative Research: An Organizational Approach to State Repression","SES","POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/1/2015","8/26/2015","Christopher Sullivan","LA","Louisiana State University & Agricultural and Mechanical College","Standard Grant","Lee Walker","8/31/2017","$53,099.00 ","Cyanne Loyle, Christian Davenport","csullivan@lsu.edu","202 Himes Hall","Baton Rouge","LA","202 Himes Hall, Baton Rouge, LA","708032701","2255782760","SBE","1371","9150, 9179","$0.00 ","General Summary <br/><br/>This project seeks to improve our understanding of state repression, human rights violation and the circumstances involved with their use. For nearly 50 years, research in political science and sociology has attempted to understand why governments repress their citizens. Despite these efforts little is known about the relationship between those who order repressive acts (""principals"") and the individuals committing such activities (""agents""). The research draws together different approaches in the literature to develop an encompassing theory of repressive organizations. The PIs generate new data on human rights violations, using Northern Ireland as the case of interest. The PIs test theoretical predictions regarding when and where repression can be expected as well as how it may be contained. This study has implications for understanding and ultimately preventing human rights violations within the United States and around the world. <br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>To account for variation in the use of repression across time and space, the PIs develop a theory focusing on three factors: how principals and agents interpret challenger threats; how event reporting determines the information available to principals and their agents; and how the repressive apparatus is organized. They examine highly disaggregated data on threat, reporting, organization, and repression across space, time, and organizational unit. In particular, the PIs collect new micro-level event data on the repressive activity of the United Kingdom and Northern Irish governments that took place from 1968 through 1998. This dataset uses British Army files from the Brigade, Battalion and British Cabinet levels to determine the degree of knowledge and reporting across these levels and to assess the role of principals and agents in this conflict across time (by day), space (by neighborhood) and actor (by battalion).","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: An Organizational Approach to State Repression",
"1519074","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Development of Corporate Personhood Law In Comparative Perspective, 1886-2014","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/17/2015","Frank Dobbin","MA","Harvard University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$11,593.00 ","Carly Knight","frank_dobbin@harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","With the rise of corporate capitalism and the establishment of the first great enterprises, American jurists and scholars struggled with the question of how to define the status of the corporation for the purposes of American law. The main point of contention concerned the degree to which the corporation should be considered as similar to a person; a natural entity with rights that could be separated from those of the corporation's owners. By the end of the 1920s, the debate had largely dissipated with the ascendance of a ""realist"" view that cast legal terms as largely empty signifiers. In recent years, corporate personhood has once again become a topic of public debate. Recently the Supreme Court re-visited the question of the proper scope for corporate rights: when and upon what basis should corporate entities engage in political speech and enjoy protections that citizens enjoy. The questions this research address are, what role (if any) did the legacy of the legal doctrine of corporate personhood play answering these questions, and in crafting American corporate regulation more broadly? And why has corporate personhood come to play this role in American law?<br/><br/>To address these questions, the researchers undertake a mixed-method approach to analyze the development of corporate personhood law between 1886-2014. First, the researchers trace the historical development of the personhood doctrine through the web of legal citations. This allows them to identity the periods, cases, courts, and legal arenas where the personhood doctrine was deployed. Second, the researchers use a comparative historical analysis between the United States and England to explain why the doctrine of corporate personhood was especially appealing to American jurists. The researchers use archival material to assess the relative influence of economic, political, institutional, and cultural drivers of legal development. The overall goal of the project is to develop a cultural theory of the development of corporate law.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Development of Corporate Personhood Law In Comparative Perspective, 1886-2014",
"1523628","CNH: Ecosystems and Societies: Divergent Trajectories and Coevolution","ICER","DYN COUPLED NATURAL-HUMAN","8/16/2014","2/18/2015","Jiquan Chen","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Sarah L. Ruth","8/31/2018","$1,163,947.00 ","","jqchen@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","GEO","1691","1691, 9169, 9186, 9278, EGCH","$0.00 ","The Mongolian Plateau includes two regions with similar ecological systems but contrasting socioeconomic systems: Mongolia and Inner Mongolia. The Plateau has increasingly received worldwide attention due its rapid biophysical and socioeconomic changes. Building upon intensive previous work in the region, the purpose of this study is to bring together a multidisciplinary research team to examine and model the changes of the natural and human systems on the Plateau as well as the critical feedbacks between them over recent decades. The project team hypothesizes that while climate change has created pressure on ecosystems and societies in the Plateau, the distinct socioeconomic conditions and development paths of the different administrative units involved have also had a significant effect on the relationships and feedbacks within the human and natural systems. The team will also test the hypothesis that the human influences on the systems exceeded those of the biophysical changes but the significance varies in time, location, and ecological setting. The five major underlying processes studied for the natural systems will include the changes in water fluxes, radiation, soil heat fluxes, primary production, and carbon loss, while the five processes for the human systems are economic growth, population growth, urbanization, technology advancement, and lifestyle change. The system functions and changes will be examined by the life expectancy index, income index, education index, net primary production, evapotranspiration, and ecosystem carbon loss. More importantly, the project team will focus on the relationships between these functions, such as the productivity vs. income index. The connection between the human and natural systems will be viewed through the lens of land use cover and land use change. The progression of causes and consequences will be examined at various levels through three tasks: 1) modeling household behaviors and surrounding ecosystems; 2) studying divergent trajectories for Mongolian systems from past to future; and 3) understanding the vulnerabilities within the system and possible future adaptation strategies toward a sustainable Plateau. The multiple dimensions of the systems will be integrated together systemically, holistically, and across disciplines. <br/><br/>The results of this study will have global implications, especially to this and other regions that are vulnerable to climate and socioeconomic changes. The project will strengthen interdisciplinary collaboration between ecology, economics, anthropology, sociology, and demography and will provide a great opportunity for junior scholars as well as graduate students to conduct interdisciplinary research. Data and findings will be disseminated through a series of transformative activities that benefit the people on the Plateau, students in the US, China, and Mongolia, the scientific community, and stakeholders and policymakers worldwide. Recognizing past difficulties in accessing the data for the Plateau, the project team will first develop a comprehensive database that can be shared with the entire scientific community. Intensive training classes and cross-campus courses will be made available through a virtual classroom using state-of-the-art cyber technology to link researchers and students in the US, Inner Mongolia, and Mongolia. Researchers will deliver invited guest lectures at least twice per term via the virtual classroom and students from the participating universities will be simultaneously exposed to diverse views from each other?s institutions. These lectures will also be openly available to other institutions.","charcoal_battery","CNH: Ecosystems and Societies: Divergent Trajectories and Coevolution",
"1424798","Understanding and Reducing Biases in Jury Decision Making","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","8/1/2014","7/2/2014","Michael Leippe","NY","CUNY John Jay College of Criminal Justice","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","7/31/2017","$348,750.00 ","","mleippe@jjay.cuny.edu","524 West 59th Street","New York","NY","524 West 59th Street, New York, NY","100191069","2122378447","SBE","1372","0000, 8819, OTHR","$0.00 ","This research addresses questions about racial and ethnic prejudice in criminal trials. Reviews of convictions and sentencing in actual cases, and findings from trial simulation experiments, provide evidence of discrimination against minorities. National polls and media stories reveal that prejudice remains prevalent in America. But research has provided little insight into how prejudice operates in the courtroom and has not identified critical factors that increase or decrease discrimination. Through a series of experiments involving trial simulations, the project seeks better theoretical understanding of how and when a defendant's race/ethnicity influences jury decisions. It also aims to identify interventions that lessen courtroom bias, thereby providing policy and practice suggestions to the legal community. These are important undertakings in a diverse society that seeks equal justice for all. <br/><br/>Eight trial simulation experiments will be conducted in which Black, Hispanic, and White jury-eligible citizens serve as mock-jurors. They will provide verdict preferences and other impressions after reviewing a trial in which the defendant is a member of either their racial/ethnic group (an ""ingroup"" defendant) or one of the other groups (an ""outgroup"" defendant). In some experiments, mock-jurors will also deliberate. Social-psychological theory guides the research and offers a framework for integrating diverse findings from sociology, criminal justice, criminology, and psychology. Based on social-psychological theory, a sense of threat -- to social identity, cultural worldview, or security -- should increase discrimination in the form of greater perceived guilt and convictions of outgroup defendants. Prejudice is understood to exist at an unconscious or implicit level, even among many who consciously reject prejudice. To assess the impact of these factors, some experiments examine whether discrimination increases when participant-jurors experience these threats through information encountered prior to the trial. Additional experiments focus on ways to reduce discrimination, including judges' instructions to guard against prejudice and the opportunity to deliberate. Results will inform decision making in the criminal justice system.","crimson_battery","Understanding and Reducing Biases in Jury Decision Making",
"1602176","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding the Mechanisms of Peer Influence in Adopting Health Products","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2016","8/3/2016","Tomas Jimenez","CA","Stanford University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,753.00 ","Anna Lunn","tjimenez@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602176<br/>Tomas Jimenez<br/>Anna Lunn<br/>Stanford University<br/><br/>This project examines how social ties and interactions shape households' financial resource allocations and investments. A vast literature on diffusion and social influence has found that a variety of individual and household outcomes are shared among people and households that have social connections. However, evidence for why these decisions and outcomes are clustered among social contacts is largely absent. The goal of this research is to identify the mechanisms through which social actors influence household consumption decisions using concepts of peer pressure, reference groups, and aspirations. Analyzing interviewees' descriptions of their social interactions and how these interactions shaped their households' decisions will provide insight into the mechanisms behind social influence, which has also been missing from studies of diffusion and contagion. Since the rate and trajectory of diffusion varies by the mechanisms of social influence, identifying the types of interactions that facilitate the spread of this large household investment will inform diffusion models of similar decisions and practices. This study will also contribute to scholars? knowledge of the factors that both contribute to and prevent individuals' and households' adoption of other health products and technologies in resource-constrained settings, especially products that require large financial investments. The research focuses on the role of sanitation infrastructure in health in India, particularly child health, and how social influence contributes to the household adoption of health infrastructure.<br/><br/>The goal of the project is to identify the mechanisms through which other social actors influence household consumption decisions. The research uses a mixed methods research design to investigate the ways in which social actors influence others' consumption preferences and decisions. The researcher initially conducted a quantitative analysis of survey data to identify which social, economic and village characteristics are associated with household latrine ownership. The co-PI will complete field work that builds on a pilot study of household sanitation conducted in January 2015 with funding from the Stanford Center for International Development. Pilot interviews suggested that opinions and preferences of extended family members were quite influential in households' financial decisions. The collection of additional interview data will allow the co-PI to gather and analyze extended accounts of household members' relationships, relative social status, and aspirations in conjunction with their own descriptions of their decision to invest in sanitation infrastructure. The findings of this study will have implications for models of diffusion and understanding the consumption choices of poor households in developing countries.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding the Mechanisms of Peer Influence in Adopting Health Products",
"1531001","Rethinking the Role of the Legal Profession in Authoritarian Societies","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2015","9/11/2015","Kathryn Hendley","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2017","$329,889.00 ","","khendley@wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1372","9179","$0.00 ","Authoritarian societies are typically marked by passivity among citizens. Although violations of rights by the state may be rampant, citizens are reluctant to challenge the state, fearing they might be targeted for persecution. Lawyers tend to be similarly cowed. This project asks whether this might be changing. Focusing on the case of Russia, the project explores how lawyers think about themselves and their role in society through a random sample of 2500 recent law graduates. Russia presents an intriguing case because the number of young people studying law exploded just as the Putin regime stepped up its curtailment of the exercise of civil rights. The survey will reveal how graduates are dispersing themselves among various types of lawyering and their attitudes towards their obligations toward clients, with particular attention to the responsibility of lawyers to support clients who want to challenge the state or other powerful actors. The results promise to provide a window into the capacity of the Russian legal profession to spur the development of civil society. The results of the survey, which will be the first to include all types of Russian lawyers, will be archived and available to other researchers for analysis. <br/><br/>The project uses mixed methods to map the Russian legal profession and investigate its political significance. The fractured nature of this group makes a survey of practicing lawyers impossible. The Principal Investigator, working in collaboration with Russian consultants based at the Institute of Sociology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, plans a panel survey of a single cohort of law school graduates. They will construct a sample of approximately 2500 law students (recipients of both bachelors and masters degrees) on the cusp of graduation in 2016, stratified by region and institutional prestige. The PI plans to return to this same group of respondents at regular 5-year intervals (though this proposal seeks funding for the first round). Among the questions that the PI will be able to answer are: how do graduates disperse among the various subgroups of the profession; and to what extent are some demographic characteristics (i.e., gender, ethnicity, religion, class) preferenced by the different subgroups of the profession in getting a job and moving up the ladder of success. As a supplement to the survey, the PI will conduct 120 follow-up interviews with respondents culled from the surveyed population with an eye to diversity in career path as well as demographic factors. These interviews will build on the survey and will be conducted in 2017. They will be concentrated in 3 regions: Moscow, Saratov, and Tomsk. The interviews will be transcribed and analyzed by the PI using NVIVO. As with the survey, future plans call for re-interviewing this same cohort of 120 respondents at regular intervals.","crimson_battery","Rethinking the Role of the Legal Profession in Authoritarian Societies",
"1528004","NeTS: Small: Large-Scale Opportunistic Data Crowdsourcing and Dissemination in Device-to-Device (D2D) Networks","CNS","RES IN NETWORKING TECH & SYS","10/1/2015","9/14/2015","Hongyi Wu","LA","University of Louisiana at Lafayette","Standard Grant","Wenjing Lou","9/30/2016","$385,024.00 ","","wu@cacs.louisiana.edu","104 University Circle","Lafayette","LA","104 University Circle, Lafayette, LA","705032701","3374826203","CSE","7363","7923, 9150","$0.00 ","The vast majority of today's wireless communication systems operate in the microwave spectrum below 3 GHz, which is experiencing severe shortage and has become a crowded resource. To meet the 1000x growth challenge in mobile broadband traffic, the millimeter wave (mmWave) band, operating at frequencies between 20 and 300 GHz, has been identified for next-generation (5G) cellular systems. While the use of mmWave band addresses the pressing needs of more wireless spectrum, it brings a new set of unique technical challenges such as severe path loss and undesired coverage holes. To this end, Device-to-Device (D2D) networks are proposed to employ short-range wireless links to establish opportunistic connections between mobile users. In this project, the researchers will explore a diversity of application-oriented problems in D2D, culminating in the formulation of both new fundamental theories and advanced technologies that contribute to the development of next-generation mobile communication systems. This project will effectively stimulate multi-disciplinary collaboration across a broad spectrum of fields, including anthropology, communications, computer science, economics, public health, demography, and sociology. It will also effectively enrich courses by implementation and experimental activities, providing students with hands-on experience.<br/><br/>The proposed research includes two research thrusts to design, implement, evaluate, and prototype new protocols and algorithms, in support of efficient data gathering and dissemination in D2D. First, a class of applications involve large-scale data gathering from mobile devices. Although crowdsourcing has been discussed in recent years, the marriage of crowdsourcing and D2D creates new, interesting research problems, due to the unique non-deterministic network paradigm. The researchers will investigate several dimensions in support of D2D-based crowdsourcing, including a competition-based participant recruitment scheme for delay-sensitive applications and an effective quest algorithm to deliver crowdsourcing requests. Second, efficient data dissemination is indispensable in many D2D applications. In contrast to the prior work that focuses on classical multicasting from a source to a given set of receivers, the researchers propose to investigate a unique and interesting problem where the receivers are not explicitly known. In such settings, a natural approach is to distribute data at some depositories, that further deliver the content to interested data consumers upon requests. Under this framework, the researchers will devise algorithms to choose optimal depositories for maximizing the total profit and develop new incentive schemes to enable efficient dissemination. Complementing these research thrusts is an experimental prototyping and validation track, with various design choices and alternatives experimentally studied, evaluated and refined.","lime_battery","NeTS: Small: Large-Scale Opportunistic Data Crowdsourcing and Dissemination in Device-to-Device (D2D) Networks",
"1444586","Effects of ADVANCE in the STEM Disciplines: Faculty Diversity, Women in Leadership, and Institutional Transformation","DGE","PROGRAM EVALUATION","8/15/2014","8/6/2014","Frank Dobbin","MA","Harvard University","Standard Grant","Earnestine P. Easter","7/31/2017","$560,603.00 ","Alexandra Kalev, Jake Bartolone","frank_dobbin@harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","EHR","7261","8212","$0.00 ","Frank Dobbins, of Harvard University, proposes a three-year project to conduct and analyze a survey of diversity policies and equity program reforms at 1,000 universities in the United States between 1990 and 2014. Building upon work that he and his collaborators conducted on the effectiveness of diversity programs at corporations in the United States, they develop several new survey instruments to conduct a research evaluation of diversity programming at universities in the United States. In particular, they will assess the impact of policies and programs to promote diversity and equity on individual faculty members as well as on the institutions themselves. These kinds of programs include mentoring activities, networking, professional development activities, career life balances policies and other policy changes. They further compare equity outcomes for individuals and at the institutional level at institutions that have received funding from the National Science Foundation to promote gender equity, awards from the ADVANCE program. They will use data from the National Science Foundation Survey of Doctorate Recipients and the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System as well as collect new data from the institutions themselves. Using these databases, the PI and his team will conduct a quantitative study to assess the effects of equity reforms, the persistence of equity reforms, and the diffusion of such reforms across types of institutions. Findings from this research has the potential to dramatically change the ways that universities in the United States address issues of gender equity because the study should result in identifying policies and programs that are most effective at achieving equity.<br/><br/>The PI team will use a multi-level modeling methodology incorporating the data that they collect through the new surveys with the big data sets already available to them to fulfill the goals discussed above. In their research on corporate equity programs the Principal Investigators developed an evidence-based theory of the remediation of inequality built on four insights from sociology and social psychology. They will test those theoretical premises in the academic context. They incorporate insights from the work-autonomy and self-determination literatures, the labeling and self-determination theories, feminist theory, and accountability theory to build the models to test theories on how equity may be achieved in university settings. Testing these theories will advance research on gender inequality in academia and at work more generally. This will be the first study to utilize comprehensive longitudinal data from ADVANCE and peer institutions to evaluate the impact of diversity and equity programming.","mauve_battery","Effects of ADVANCE in the STEM Disciplines: Faculty Diversity, Women in Leadership, and Institutional Transformation",
"1563933","III: Medium: Collaborative Research: Exploiting Context in Cartographic Evolutionary Documents to Extract and Build Linked Spatial-Temporal Datasets","IIS","GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, INFO INTEGRATION & INFORMATICS","9/1/2016","8/4/2016","Stefan Leyk","CO","University of Colorado at Boulder","Continuing grant","Maria Zemankova","8/31/2019","$224,916.00 ","","stefan.leyk@colorado.edu","3100 Marine Street, Room 481","Boulder","CO","3100 Marine Street, Room 481, Boulder, CO","803031058","3034926221","CSE","1352, 7364","7364, 7924, 1352","$0.00 ","Millions of historical maps are in digital archives today. For example, the U.S. Geological Survey has created and scanned over 200,000 topographic maps covering a 125-year period. Maps are a form of ""evolutionary visual documents"" because they display landscape changes over long periods of time and across large areas. Such documents are of tremendous value because they provide a high-resolution window into the past at a continental scale. Unfortunately, without time-intensive manual digitization scanned maps are unusable for research purposes. Map features, such as wetlands and roads, while readable by humans, are only available as images. This interdisciplinary collaborative project involving researchers and their students at University of Southern California and University of Colorado, Boulder will develop a set of open-source technologies and tools that allow users to extract map features from a large number of map sheets and track changes of features between map editions in a Geographical Information System. The resulting open-source tools will enable exciting new forms of research and learning in history, demography, economics, sociology, ecology, and other disciplines. The data produced by this project will be made publically available and through case studies integrated with other historical archives. Spatially and temporally linked knowledge covering man-made and natural features over more than 125 years holds enormous potential for the physical and social sciences. The wealth of information contained in these maps is unique, especially for the time before the widespread use of aerial photography. The ability to automatically transform the scanned paper maps stored in large archives into spatio-temporally linked knowledge will create an important resource for social and natural scientists studying global change and other socio-geographic processes that play out over large areas and long periods of time. <br/><br/>The research goal of this project is to develop a recognition and data integration framework that extracts, organizes, and links the knowledge found in visual documents that evolve over time, such as a map series. While past work has focused on feature extraction from single well-conditioned map images, this framework will handle large volume historical map archives for efficient, robust extraction of man-made and natural features and link the features across time (map editions), space (map sheets), and scale. The framework will perform recognition in maps with poor graphical quality by exploiting contextual information in the form of linked knowledge. This contextual information comes from existing spatial data sources or has been extracted from more recent high-quality map editions, which can be used to improve and refine the training steps for automatically processing maps in an archive. The framework also exploits knowledge of the semantic relationships between features to increase robustness, efficiency, and the degree of automation of the methods developed and characterize uncertainty in the extracted data as well as in linking between extracted data across space, time, and scale. This research project will validate the methods by using case studies that evaluate the extracted, fully linked data collections for major feature types (built-up area, infrastructure, hydrography and vegetation) from both the USGS and Ordnance Survey maps. The researchers will use multiple study regions that represent different histories in landscape evolution and transitions driven by processes such as urbanization and its effects on rural and wild landscapes (e.g., the I-95 megapolitan urban corridor). Publications, software, and datasets for this project will be made available on the project website (http://spatial-computing.github.io/unlocking-spatiotemporal-map-data).","lime_atom","III: Medium: Collaborative Research: Exploiting Context in Cartographic Evolutionary Documents to Extract and Build Linked Spatial-Temporal Datasets",
"1428512","Collaborative Research: Military Veteran Students' Pathways in Engineering Education","EEC","ENGINEERING EDUCATION","9/1/2014","8/21/2014","Susan Lord","CA","University of San Diego","Standard Grant","Elliot Douglas","8/31/2018","$472,627.00 ","Michelle Camacho, Catherine Mobley","slord@sandiego.edu","5998 Alcala Park M264","San Diego","CA","5998 Alcala Park M264, San Diego, CA","921102492","6192606825","ENG","1340","110E, 8047","$0.00 ","Military veterans hold tremendous promise for expanding and diversifying the engineering workforce. Given the diverse backgrounds of veterans, their increasing numbers, and the growing national demand for engineers, the timing is ideal to study the conditions under which veterans pursue and succeed in engineering education. Student veterans bring valuable assets to their engineering education, but more research is needed to understand their academic and social acculturation into campus life. Therefore, this project aims to (1) identify why veterans pursue bachelor's degrees in engineering, (2) illustrate veteran experiences in engineering education, and (3) advance knowledge on how academic institutions can further support veterans in engineering. This comparative case study of student veterans in engineering across four academic institutions will include interviews of student veterans and key stakeholders, as well as a content analysis of materials and websites related to student veteran issues and concerns. The interdisciplinary research team from engineering, sociology, and education brings expertise on veterans, gender, race/ethnicity, social capital, and persistence in higher education that provides a strong foundation for advancing knowledge in engineering education.<br/><br/>Supporting more veterans to transition to successful careers in engineering is a vital service to the nation. Broadening the participation of veterans in engineering offers the potential to enhance diversity in engineering across multiple dimensions since, compared to civilian students, veterans are more likely to be older, first-generation college, disabled, African-American, or Latino. The study results will provide context and information for various applications, such as: development of new strategies to support student veterans' success, identification of overlooked areas to promote student veterans' participation in engineering, and generation of critical information for development of larger-scale studies for investigating student veterans in engineering. A comprehensive dissemination plan ensures that the study results, particularly the best practices for supporting veterans in engineering, reach diverse audiences interested in student veterans and engineering education. The advisory board includes a variety of stakeholders who have the interest, expertise, and commitment to act on the policy implications of the study.","golden_battery","Collaborative Research: Military Veteran Students' Pathways in Engineering Education",
"1324097","Approaches to the Aftermath of Intergroup Violence: Effects of Impunity, Trials, and Truth Commissions on Intergroup Peace and Reconciliation Between Victims and Perpetrators","BCS","SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY","9/1/2013","8/28/2013","Bernhard Leidner","MA","University of Massachusetts Amherst","Standard Grant","Tamera Schneider","8/31/2017","$374,875.00 ","Nebojsa Petrovic","bleidner@psych.umass.edu","Research Administration Building","AMHERST","MA","Research Administration Building, AMHERST, MA","10039242","4135450698","SBE","1332","1332","$0.00 ","What is the best way to achieve reconciliation and peace following international or inter-ethnic conflict and violence? Impunity, trials or tribunals, and truth commissions are different methods to that have been used to try to resolve conflicts. Dr. Bernhard Leidner (University of Massachusetts Amherst) and colleagues will test which approaches to international/inter-ethnic violence (AIVs) are most likely to facilitate reconciliation and peace in post-conflict societies. They have developed a model explaining the consequences and underlying mechanisms of different AIVs among perpetrators and victims. Dr. Leidner and his collaborators hypothesize that perceived fairness of an AIV leads to increased willingness to reconcile and decreased motivation for future violence; and this occurs by increasing empathy for, and decreasing anger at and dehumanization of the adversarial group of a past conflict. Which AIV will be perceived as most fair should depend on people's membership in victim or perpetrator groups, and their beliefs in the superiority of this group over other groups. This theory will be tested in ten empirical studies in multiple countries, utilizing a mix of research designs. Participants will include heterogeneous and representative groups of adults, some whom have experienced past international or inter-ethnic conflict.<br/><br/>This research tests hypotheses of theoretical and scholarly interest at the center of important large-scale social problems. Knowledge gained from this work will be of interest to scholars from a broad range of disciplines (e.g., foreign/ international relations, international law, political science, psychology, sociology) and will inform our understanding of and decisions about AIVs. Therefore, this research constitutes an important step in working towards minimizing international or inter-ethnic violence and maximizing reconciliation and peace. This project will also provide unique, interdisciplinary training and education for graduate researchers and undergraduate research assistants, including some from under-represented backgrounds. Research findings will be disseminated through journal publications and conference presentations, as well as through NGOs and other entities outside of academia.","crimson_battery","Approaches to the Aftermath of Intergroup Violence: Effects of Impunity, Trials, and Truth Commissions on Intergroup Peace and Reconciliation Between Victims and Perpetrators",
"1626726","Doctoral Dissertation Research:Does Restorative Justice Contribute to Human Rights and Peace? Explaining Diffusion and Evaluating Impacts Using a Multi-Method, Multi-Level Approach","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2016","6/15/2016","Kathryn Sikkink","MN","University of Minnesota-Twin Cities","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2017","$25,083.00 ","Bridget Marchesi","Kathryn_Sikkink@hks.harvard.edu","200 OAK ST SE","Minneapolis","MN","200 OAK ST SE, Minneapolis, MN","554552070","6126245599","SBE","1372","9179","$0.00 ","Increasingly, states are choosing restorative justice mechanisms such as truth commissions and reparations to address past human rights harms. Transitional states now see transitional justice as a route to legitimacy and stability. Restorative justice advocates claim that truth commissions and reparations play a critical causal role in bringing about a diverse set of positive societal outcomes including improving human rights, democratic development, and consolidating peace. Despite the global diffusion of the restorative justice discourse and the widespread adoption of domestic truth commissions and reparations policies, there is little evidence that restorative justice actually works. The first research question this project will address is: do restorative justice mechanisms contribute to improvements in human rights, democratic development, and peace consolidation, and if so, how? Second, if restorative justice does not have these positive impacts, then why have restorative justice policies diffused so widely and why do state officials, advocates, and academics continue to make claims about policy efficacy? Applying a multi-method, multi-level approach to explain restorative justice diffusion and evaluate its impacts at the global and subnational levels, the research will clarify explanations for policy diffusion, and establish the relationship between different forms of justice (e.g. retributive, restorative) and reconciliation. It will provide a much-needed evidence base to help guide policy design and help channel resources into the most impactful transitional justice and peacebuilding programs; and it will contribute to current policy debates about how to achieve sustainable peace. <br/><br/>To empirically test different explanations for policy diffusion, the principal investigators (PIs) statistically analyze cross-national data from the NSF-supported Transitional Justice Research Collaborative (TJRC) database. They also utilize newly collected meso- and micro-level data from recent field work in Colombia to identify new diffusion pathways and construct different measures of (non-geographic) spatial nearness. To evaluate the impact of restorative justice on human rights, democracy, and peace outcomes, the PIs statistically analyze cross-national data from the TJRC database and micro-level data from a recently completed Harvard-led population-based survey in Colombia. Supported by the NSF Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grant, the PIs will implement an innovative survey experiment in Colombia to explore the relationship between restorative justice and reconciliation -- the most commonly claimed outcome among restorative justice supporters. Utilizing an experimental vignette methodology (EVM), which uses survey sampling methods to produce a collection of experimental subjects and experimental methods to randomly assign participants to variations of the independent variable, they will test how different provisions of justice (e.g. restorative, retributive, distributive, and procedural) impact individual judgments about reconciliation. In transitional settings, these provisions of justice are delivered through transitional justice processes such as criminal prosecutions, truth commissions, and reparations. The experimental field survey helps establish and clarify pathways between different forms of justice and reconciliation, and will be used to explore how different forms and combinations of justice change subjective judgments about reconciliation. The research design draws from a basic comparative design according to which randomly selected individuals from different groups are compared. The PIs will make comparisons, among others, between the general population, war victims, and Afro-Colombians. The PIs draw on insights from political science, sociology, and anthropology in order to study restorative justice dynamics at the global and subnational levels.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research:Does Restorative Justice Contribute to Human Rights and Peace? Explaining Diffusion and Evaluating Impacts Using a Multi-Method, Multi-Level Approach",
"1564164","III: Medium: Collaborative Research: Exploiting Context in Cartographic Evolutionary Documents to Extract and Build Linked Spatial-Temporal Datasets","IIS","GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, INFO INTEGRATION & INFORMATICS","9/1/2016","8/4/2016","Craig Knoblock","CA","University of Southern California","Continuing grant","Maria Zemankova","8/31/2019","$249,917.00 ","Yao-Yi Chiang","knoblock@isi.edu","University Park","Los Angeles","CA","University Park, Los Angeles, CA","900890001","2137407762","CSE","1352, 7364","7364, 7924, 1352","$0.00 ","Millions of historical maps are in digital archives today. For example, the U.S. Geological Survey has created and scanned over 200,000 topographic maps covering a 125-year period. Maps are a form of ""evolutionary visual documents"" because they display landscape changes over long periods of time and across large areas. Such documents are of tremendous value because they provide a high-resolution window into the past at a continental scale. Unfortunately, without time-intensive manual digitization scanned maps are unusable for research purposes. Map features, such as wetlands and roads, while readable by humans, are only available as images. This interdisciplinary collaborative project involving researchers and their students at University of Southern California and University of Colorado, Boulder will develop a set of open-source technologies and tools that allow users to extract map features from a large number of map sheets and track changes of features between map editions in a Geographical Information System. The resulting open-source tools will enable exciting new forms of research and learning in history, demography, economics, sociology, ecology, and other disciplines. The data produced by this project will be made publically available and through case studies integrated with other historical archives. Spatially and temporally linked knowledge covering man-made and natural features over more than 125 years holds enormous potential for the physical and social sciences. The wealth of information contained in these maps is unique, especially for the time before the widespread use of aerial photography. The ability to automatically transform the scanned paper maps stored in large archives into spatio-temporally linked knowledge will create an important resource for social and natural scientists studying global change and other socio-geographic processes that play out over large areas and long periods of time. <br/><br/>The research goal of this project is to develop a recognition and data integration framework that extracts, organizes, and links the knowledge found in visual documents that evolve over time, such as a map series. While past work has focused on feature extraction from single well-conditioned map images, this framework will handle large volume historical map archives for efficient, robust extraction of man-made and natural features and link the features across time (map editions), space (map sheets), and scale. The framework will perform recognition in maps with poor graphical quality by exploiting contextual information in the form of linked knowledge. This contextual information comes from existing spatial data sources or has been extracted from more recent high-quality map editions, which can be used to improve and refine the training steps for automatically processing maps in an archive. The framework also exploits knowledge of the semantic relationships between features to increase robustness, efficiency, and the degree of automation of the methods developed and characterize uncertainty in the extracted data as well as in linking between extracted data across space, time, and scale. This research project will validate the methods by using case studies that evaluate the extracted, fully linked data collections for major feature types (built-up area, infrastructure, hydrography and vegetation) from both the USGS and Ordnance Survey maps. The researchers will use multiple study regions that represent different histories in landscape evolution and transitions driven by processes such as urbanization and its effects on rural and wild landscapes (e.g., the I-95 megapolitan urban corridor). Publications, software, and datasets for this project will be made available on the project website (http://spatial-computing.github.io/unlocking-spatiotemporal-map-data).","lime_atom","III: Medium: Collaborative Research: Exploiting Context in Cartographic Evolutionary Documents to Extract and Build Linked Spatial-Temporal Datasets",
"1417601","Understanding the Role of Contextual Effects in STEM Pursuit and Persistence: A Synthesis Approach","DRL","DISCOVERY RESEARCH K-12","9/1/2014","8/23/2014","Michael Gottfried","CA","University of California-Santa Barbara","Standard Grant","Rebecca Kruse","8/31/2017","$250,350.00 ","Ann Owens, Darryl Williams","mgottfried@education.ucsb.edu","Office of Research","SANTA BARBARA","CA","Office of Research, SANTA BARBARA, CA","931062050","8058934188","EHR","7645","","$0.00 ","The percentage of U.S. high school graduates pursuing STEM majors has declined over the last three decades with the largest decline among the highest achieving students. American youth are ill-prepared relative to their international counterparts - U.S. 15 year olds rank 16 out of 26 developed countries in science literacy and 19 out of 26 developed counties in mathematical literacy. There is much research in the areas of how students learn STEM in formal settings, but there is little knowledge of the impact of youth contexts on STEM. Youth contexts are social groups in the lives of young people such as neighborhoods, communities, schools, classrooms or friends. Understanding the role of youth contexts is crucial to ensuring that all students have the opportunity to learn STEM content. This project will synthesize the research literature on youth context and assess whether and how a range of these contexts shape K-12 STEM outcomes and engagement - predictors critical for later educational and occupational attainment. The researchers will conduct two large-scale meta-analyses - one based on the quantitative research body and one based on the qualitative research body - in order to draw conclusions about which contextual factors relate to which STEM outcomes across the span of extant research. In doing so, this synthesis project will inform educators and policymakers about the cumulative evidence that exists on the impacts of a variety of contextual factors on a multitude of STEM outcomes (e.g., math and science achievement, self-efficacy, future goals). This project will provide new evidence regarding the significance of youth contexts on STEM outcomes that will assist policy makers and educators in evaluating productive educational environments. <br/><br/>Syntheses of the research in youth contexts and their impact in STEM will address the following four research questions: (1) How do contextual factors impact STEM learning?; (2) How do these factors vary by the specific type of context?; (3) How do these factors vary by gender and race within each context?; and, (4) Are these factors influenced by the methodological features of the research? The review will include electronic searches of educational, economics, sociology, psychology, and general science databases covering the years 1980-2014. Results will be narrowed by youth context area, and separate analysis will be conducted on gender and race/ethnicity differences in STEM outcomes. The data for the full review will be evaluated by a common set of guidelines to be published along with the findings, enabling the conclusions of the review to be transparent and allowing for detailed information to be easily accessible. The review will discuss each study that meets the inclusion requirements for a valid research design. With this methodology, this study will be the first to provide a clearinghouse of rigorous research related to contextual factors of STEM outcomes","mauve_battery","Understanding the Role of Contextual Effects in STEM Pursuit and Persistence: A Synthesis Approach",
"1649676","NeTS: Small: Large-Scale Opportunistic Data Crowdsourcing and Dissemination in Device-to-Device (D2D) Networks","CNS","RES IN NETWORKING TECH & SYS","8/1/2016","8/2/2016","Hongyi Wu","VA","Old Dominion University Research Foundation","Standard Grant","Wenjing Lou","9/30/2018","$385,024.00 ","","wu@cacs.louisiana.edu","4111 Monarch Way","Norfolk","VA","4111 Monarch Way, Norfolk, VA","235082561","7576834293","CSE","7363","7923, 9150","$0.00 ","The vast majority of today's wireless communication systems operate in the microwave spectrum below 3 GHz, which is experiencing severe shortage and has become a crowded resource. To meet the 1000x growth challenge in mobile broadband traffic, the millimeter wave (mmWave) band, operating at frequencies between 20 and 300 GHz, has been identified for next-generation (5G) cellular systems. While the use of mmWave band addresses the pressing needs of more wireless spectrum, it brings a new set of unique technical challenges such as severe path loss and undesired coverage holes. To this end, Device-to-Device (D2D) networks are proposed to employ short-range wireless links to establish opportunistic connections between mobile users. In this project, the researchers will explore a diversity of application-oriented problems in D2D, culminating in the formulation of both new fundamental theories and advanced technologies that contribute to the development of next-generation mobile communication systems. This project will effectively stimulate multi-disciplinary collaboration across a broad spectrum of fields, including anthropology, communications, computer science, economics, public health, demography, and sociology. It will also effectively enrich courses by implementation and experimental activities, providing students with hands-on experience.<br/><br/>The proposed research includes two research thrusts to design, implement, evaluate, and prototype new protocols and algorithms, in support of efficient data gathering and dissemination in D2D. First, a class of applications involve large-scale data gathering from mobile devices. Although crowdsourcing has been discussed in recent years, the marriage of crowdsourcing and D2D creates new, interesting research problems, due to the unique non-deterministic network paradigm. The researchers will investigate several dimensions in support of D2D-based crowdsourcing, including a competition-based participant recruitment scheme for delay-sensitive applications and an effective quest algorithm to deliver crowdsourcing requests. Second, efficient data dissemination is indispensable in many D2D applications. In contrast to the prior work that focuses on classical multicasting from a source to a given set of receivers, the researchers propose to investigate a unique and interesting problem where the receivers are not explicitly known. In such settings, a natural approach is to distribute data at some depositories, that further deliver the content to interested data consumers upon requests. Under this framework, the researchers will devise algorithms to choose optimal depositories for maximizing the total profit and develop new incentive schemes to enable efficient dissemination. Complementing these research thrusts is an experimental prototyping and validation track, with various design choices and alternatives experimentally studied, evaluated and refined.","lime_battery","NeTS: Small: Large-Scale Opportunistic Data Crowdsourcing and Dissemination in Device-to-Device (D2D) Networks",
"1500720","Documentation and Child Learners: A Workshop to Examine the Broader Impacts of Endangered Language Documentation","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, DEVELOP& LEARNING SCIENCES/CRI, DEL","5/1/2015","8/2/2016","Ruth Rouvier","MA","Education Development Center","Standard Grant","Colleen Fitzgerald","4/30/2017","$60,000.00 ","","rrouvier@edc.org","43 Foundry Avenue","Waltham","MA","43 Foundry Avenue, Waltham, MA","24538313","6176182227","SBE","1331, 1698, 7719","1311, 1331, 1698, 7556, 7719","$0.00 ","Current research indicates that 46% of the world's 7,000 languages are in danger of losing their last speakers by the end of this century. Communities are responding to this situation by accelerating their efforts to learn their languages. In situations of severe language endangerment, communities and educators are turning to archived language documentation to promote language learning. This workshop project will investigate the process of language acquisition in these unique learning situations, looking specifically at the role of documentary materials -- grammars, dictionary, and linguistically analyzed natural discourse -- in learning. A special focus will be on the long-term academic success and other benefits to learners.<br/><br/>In Fall 2015, Ruth Rouvier of the Education Development Center will facilitate this workshop in Washington D.C. Rouvier will bring together a 10-member interdisciplinary team of specialists in language acquisition, early childhood development, educational linguistics, documentary linguistics, statistics, and public health. Participants will address topics relating to the role of language documentation in formal language-based activities and the impact of these activities on learners ages 0-5. The impacts to be addressed include linguistic benefits (language competence and use) and extra-linguistic benefits relating to academic success and social well-being. Workshop participants will examine both the resources and practices known or hypothesized to result in these positive outcomes, and the methods for evaluating these benefits. They will assess the state of collective (i.e., academic, professional and community) knowledge regarding these issues and make recommendations for addressing shortfalls, in order to encourage research on how language documentation research affects society.<br/><br/>Results of the workshop will be broadly disseminated for discussion and comment through listservs such as the Resource Network for Linguistic Diversity, the Foundation for Endangered Languages), and the Linguistlist.","crimson_battery","Documentation and Child Learners: A Workshop to Examine the Broader Impacts of Endangered Language Documentation",
"1430260","PFI:BIC: The Living Bridge: The Future of Smart, User-Centered Transportation Infrastructure","IIP","PARTNRSHIPS FOR INNOVATION-PFI, ITEST, AISL, EFRI RESEARCH PROJECTS","8/15/2014","7/7/2015","Erin Bell","NH","University of New Hampshire","Standard Grant","Alexandra Medina-Borja","7/31/2017","$815,722.00 ","Tat Fu, Martin Wosnik, Kenneth Baldwin, Lawrence Hamilton","erin.bell@unh.edu","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107","Durham","NH","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107, Durham, NH","38243585","6038622172","ENG","1662, 7227, 7259, 7633","116E, 1662, 9150, 9251","$0.00 ","This Partnerships for Innovation: Building Innovation Capacity (PFI:BIC) project from the University of New Hampshire focuses on a ""living bridge"", which exemplifies the future of smart, sustainable, user-centered transportation infrastructure. Bridges deliver such a fundamental service to society that they are often taken for granted. Typically, bridges only stir the public's interest when they must unexpectedly be replaced at great cost, or, worse, fail. The Living Bridge project will create a self-diagnosing, self-reporting ""smart bridge"" powered by a local renewable energy source, tidal energy, by transforming the landmark Memorial Bridge--a vertical lift bridge over the tidal Piscataqua River, with pedestrian access connecting Portsmouth, New Hampshire to Kittery, Maine--into a living laboratory for researchers, engineers, scientists, and the community at large. The Living Bridge will engage innovators in sensor and renewable energy technology by creating an incubator platform on a working bridge, from which researchers can field test and evaluate the impact and effectiveness of emerging technologies. The Living Bridge will also serve as a community platform to educate citizens about innovations occurring at the site and in the region, and about how incorporating renewable energy into bridge design can lead to a sustainable transportation infrastructure with impact far beyond the region. <br/><br/>Sustainable, smart bridges are key elements in developing a successful infrastructure system. To advance the state of smart service systems and clean energy conversion, this project team will design and deploy a structural and environmental monitoring system that provides information for bridge condition assessment, traffic management, and environmental stewardship; advances renewable energy technology application; and excites the general public about bridge innovations. This PFI:BIC project is enabled through partnerships between academic researchers with expertise in structural, mechanical and ocean engineering, sensing technology and social science; small businesses with expertise in instrumentation, data acquisition, tidal energy conversion; and state agencies with bridge design expertise. The Living Bridge technical areas are structural health monitoring, tidal energy conversion with fluid-structure interaction measurements, estuarine environmental monitoring, and outreach communication. Sensors will be used to calibrate a three-dimensional analytical structural finite element model of the bridge. The predicted structural response from this model will assess the measured structural response of the bridge as acceptable or not. Instruments installed on the turbine deployment platform will measure the spatio-temporal structure of the turbulent inflow and modified wake flow downstream of the turbine. Resulting data will include turbine performance and loads for use in fluid-structure interaction models. Deployed environmental sensors will measure estuarine water quality; wildlife deterrent sensors will deter fish from the turbine. Hydrophones and video cameras will be used before and during turbine deployment to monitor environmental changes due to turbine presence. Outreach efforts will make bridge data, history, and information about new systems accessible and understandable to the public and K-12 educators, facilitated by an information kiosk installed at the bridge. Public awareness will be assessed with survey methods used in the N.H. Granite State Poll. <br/><br/>The lead institution is the University of New Hampshire (UNH) with its departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Sociology, and the Center for Ocean Engineering. Primary industrial partners are a large business, MacArtney Underwater Technology Group, Inc. (Houston, TX); and a small business, Lite Enterprises, Inc. (Nashua, NH). Broader context partners are New Hampshire Department of Transportation, NH Fish & Game Department, NH Port Authority, NH Coastal Program, City of Portsmouth (NH), Sustainable Portsmouth (nonprofit), Maine Department of Transportation, U.S. Coast Guard, Archer/Western (Canton, MA, large business), Parsons-Brinkerhoff (Manchester, NH, large business), UNH Tech Camp, UNH Infrastructure and Climate Network, UNH Leitzel Center for Mathematics, Science and Engineering Education, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Changing Places (a joint Architecture and Media Laboratory Consortium, in Cambridge, MA).","golden_battery","PFI:BIC: The Living Bridge: The Future of Smart, User-Centered Transportation Infrastructure",
"1320520","HCC: Small: Social Agents and Robots for Open-Ended Domains","IIS","Cyber-Human Systems (CHS)","8/15/2013","5/19/2016","Brian Magerko","GA","Georgia Tech Research Corporation","Continuing grant","Ephraim P. Glinert","1/31/2017","$545,789.00 ","Mark Riedl, Andrea Thomaz","brian.magerko@lmc.gatech.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Atlanta","GA","Office of Sponsored Programs, Atlanta, GA","303320420","4048944819","CSE","7367","7367, 7923, 9251","$0.00 ","Recreational activity is a fundamental aspect of human existence and an important part of the human condition within familial and social groups, where it serves to strengthen social ties by increasing affect between individuals and as a form of education in creative thinking. Despite a sizable accumulation of knowledge about such activity from sociology, anthropology, and psychology, ""play"" as a first-class concept has not been studied through the lens of computation. When today's agents engage with humans, they do so in the context of structured environments and are highly dependent on well-defined goals and/or behaviors. Contrast this to the domain of pretend play, which involves non-goal directed peer-to-peer activity in a shared imaginary second reality that is continually altered. Pretend play is a common form of engagement that is relevant to an array of social domains, such as elder care, peer learning, or social skills therapy for children with autism spectrum disorders. The PI's goal in this research is to imbue robot systems with procedural and declarative representations of play so that they are capable of engaging in such activity with humans as peers. The work aims to discover how to develop humanoid robots with the ability to engage, improvise, and create with humans in unstructured environments. Such robot capability would foster perceptions of lifelikeness, social acceptance, and companionship similar to the experience of playing with other people. These agents would encourage spirited behaviors and creativity in people. They would elicit high levels of interest, intrinsic motivation, and positive affect, which in turn would lead to better concentration, learning, and personal investment by the human participant. To achieve these goals, the PI will leverage his prior work on creativity and cognition to conduct a study of adults engaging in object-based pretend play to elicit a formal understanding of it in dyads. The findings will subsequently be applied to building social robots that engage, based on the team's expertise in human-centered AI and human-robot interaction. The resulting robot architecture will be evaluated to see how it can enhance robot affect and social acceptance. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: This research will create a new academic research direction of Computational Play within the field of social robotics that has the potential to contribute a solid and unique advance to the field, and also to change how we interact with intelligent agents thereby increasing agents' social value and acceptance by the humans around them. The work will increase via empirical study our understanding of human engagement, and in particular of the knowledge and social dynamics involved in pretend scenarios. The playful robots to be designed, implemented and formally evaluated in this work will inform the human-robot interaction community as to how such activity can be used within HRI contexts to increase affect. This work also has the potential of improving the learning and creativity of those that interact with social agents, making computational play a valuable research direction for education. The project will provide a fertile ground for interdisciplinary training of graduate and undergraduate students, and a wealth of interaction data that will be shared with the scientific community.","lime_atom","HCC: Small: Social Agents and Robots for Open-Ended Domains",
"1613173","Understanding Regression Heterogeneity Through Joint Estimation of Conditional Quantiles","DMS","STATISTICS","8/1/2016","8/1/2016","Surya Tokdar","NC","Duke University","Standard Grant","Nandini Kannan","7/31/2019","$149,979.00 ","","st118@stat.duke.edu","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710","Durham","NC","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710, Durham, NC","277054010","9196843030","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","In many data-driven scientific investigations, the primary goal is to understand the relationship between a response variable and a set of predictors. Standard statistical techniques attempt to detect and quantify the nature of such relationships through changes in the average response. However, in the real world, predictor-response relationships are often more complex and nuanced. In disciplines like climate science, ecology, economics, public health and sociology, investigators are often interested in understanding changes to the extreme response percentiles. Additional insights are gained by quantifying how the rate of change varies as one moves from the average to the extremes. This project aims to develop sophisticated and theoretically sound statistical tools that can answer these questions from large and complex data sets. <br/><br/>Statistical tools are sought within the recently popularized modeling framework of linear quantile regression. The proposed framework expands the scope of linear quantile regression to scenarios where the response variables exhibit additional dependency. Such dependency manifests in many common situations, e.g., when one simultaneously measures multiple response variables per observation unit, when a response is measured repeatedly over time, or, when data is drawn from a network of individuals. Standing between the promise of quantile regression and its wider applicability is the lack of a proper model-based estimation framework. The PI has recently introduced a modeling framework that leads to Bayesian or penalized likelihood based joint estimation of linear quantile planes over arbitrary predictor spaces. Proposed model extensions augment this framework with autoregressive and copula formulations to address various kinds of structural dependency between the observation units. The project will develop efficient inference algorithms using advanced Bayesian techniques based on stochastic computation, and public, open source software in the form of R packages. Software development will incorporate possible leveraging of distributed computing architectures to render scalability to big data. For all model extensions, the PI will also carry out sharp analyses of theoretical guarantees on model performance by working out the large sample distribution theory of Bayesian parameter estimates.","salmon_battery","Understanding Regression Heterogeneity Through Joint Estimation of Conditional Quantiles",
"1565409","Collaborative Research: An Organizational Approach to State Repression","SES","POLITICAL SCIENCE","8/28/2015","10/23/2015","Cyanne Loyle","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Lee Walker","8/31/2017","$37,698.00 ","","mail@cyanneloyle.com","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","SBE","1371","9150, 9179","$0.00 ","General Summary <br/><br/>This project seeks to improve our understanding of state repression, human rights violation and the circumstances involved with their use. For nearly 50 years, research in political science and sociology has attempted to understand why governments repress their citizens. Despite these efforts little is known about the relationship between those who order repressive acts (""principals"") and the individuals committing such activities (""agents""). The research draws together different approaches in the literature to develop an encompassing theory of repressive organizations. The PIs generate new data on human rights violations, using Northern Ireland as the case of interest. The PIs test theoretical predictions regarding when and where repression can be expected as well as how it may be contained. This study has implications for understanding and ultimately preventing human rights violations within the United States and around the world. <br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>To account for variation in the use of repression across time and space, the PIs develop a theory focusing on three factors: how principals and agents interpret challenger threats; how event reporting determines the information available to principals and their agents; and how the repressive apparatus is organized. They examine highly disaggregated data on threat, reporting, organization, and repression across space, time, and organizational unit. In particular, the PIs collect new micro-level event data on the repressive activity of the United Kingdom and Northern Irish governments that took place from 1968 through 1998. This dataset uses British Army files from the Brigade, Battalion and British Cabinet levels to determine the degree of knowledge and reporting across these levels and to assess the role of principals and agents in this conflict across time (by day), space (by neighborhood) and actor (by battalion).","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: An Organizational Approach to State Repression",
"1520803","Hazards SEES: Enhancing Emergency Preparedness for Critical Infrastructure Failure during Extreme Heat Events","SES","INFRAST MGMT & EXTREME EVENTS, SEES Hazards, SEES Coastal","8/15/2015","8/10/2015","Brian Stone","GA","Georgia Tech Research Corporation","Standard Grant","Robert E. O'Connor","7/31/2019","$2,325,000.00 ","Matei Georgescu, Marie O'Neill","brian.stone@coa.gatech.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Atlanta","GA","Office of Sponsored Programs, Atlanta, GA","303320420","4048944819","SBE","1638, 8087, 8088","4444, 8060","$0.00 ","Extreme heat is among the leading causes of weather-related deaths in the US. Electrically-powered air conditioning can reduce heat exposure and thus protect human health. Due to rising demand and more frequent severe weather, electrical blackouts have become increasingly common. More frequent and intense heat waves are expected with climate change, so future blackouts may result in significant risks to public health, especially among children, the elderly, and the poor. Being prepared for blackout emergencies and reducing hazards may have important health benefits during heat waves. This research estimates the human health risk of concurrent heat wave and blackout events in the cities of Atlanta, Detroit, and Phoenix and examines the potential benefits of specific actions to reduce the impacts of extreme heat, including environmental changes, technological improvements, and behavioral changes. Models of regional climate, building interior heat exposure, and human health effects combine to simulate human heat exposure under heat wave and electrical grid blackout scenarios, quantify heat-related illness, and evaluate the potential for individual and institutional adaptive strategies to lessen the impacts of extreme heat. This project estimates the human health risk of blackouts during periods of extreme heat, which already take a heavy toll on public health. The outcomes of this research advances the progress of science through the development of a new approach to measuring indoor heat exposure and enhances national health through the testing of electrical generation, passive cooling, and behavioral adaptations to protect health during extreme weather hazards. This research further supports the development of new protocols for emergency response planning pertaining to heat risk monitoring and evacuation. <br/><br/>The goals of this project are to estimate mortality and morbidity associated with simulated grid failure events during heat wave conditions in the cities of Atlanta, Detroit, and Phoenix in response to current and future climate conditions, and to assess the effectiveness of specific environmental, technological, and behavioral adaptations in mitigating a growing heat hazard. These cities were chosen for their different climatic, demographic, and urban form profiles. The research makes use of a modified health impact function to capture the effects of concurrent heat wave and grid failure events on mortality and morbidity. Through the linking of regional climate and building energy models, in combination with information on the residential building stock and grid infrastructure in each region, the study assesses the relative benefits of emergency preparedness and hazard mitigation strategies drawn from several distinct fields: urban climatology, architecture, electrical engineering, public health, and urban sociology. The study supports the advancement of knowledge and methodological innovation in three principal areas. First, the development of a new heat exposure metric - individual experienced temperature (IET) - enables for the first time an individualized assessment of heat risk responsive to daily patterns of heat exposure. Through the monitoring of both ambient and indoor temperature and humidity for occupants of classified building types, in combination with data collected through wearable sensors, it will be possible to substitute individualized measures of heat exposure for regional ambient temperature observations in health impact functions, improving the quantification of heat risk. Measurement of IET further enables quantification of the elevated risk of heat illness during periods of grid failure, when air conditioning systems are inoperable. Second, the integration of regional climate and building energy models will enable assessment of environmental, technological, and behavioral adaptations hypothesized to reduce IET. The testing of specific heat adaptations directly informs emergency preparedness and hazard mitigation planning undertaken by local and state governments. Finally, the collection of survey data on behavioral responses to extreme heat expands our understanding of how populations with variable access to continuous air conditioning cope with conditions of extreme heat and provides a basis to identify and promote effective personal adaptations.","crimson_battery","Hazards SEES: Enhancing Emergency Preparedness for Critical Infrastructure Failure during Extreme Heat Events",
"1416730","IBSS: Participatory-Ensemble Modeling to Study the Multiscale Social and Behavioral Dynamics of Food Security","SMA","Interdiscp Behav&SocSci IBSS","8/1/2014","9/18/2015","Arika Ligmann-Zielinska","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","1/31/2019","$999,793.00 ","Sandra Marquart-Pyatt, Laura Schmitt Olabisi, Louie Rivers, Jing Du","ligmannz@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","SBE","8213","8213, 8605, 9278","$0.00 ","Despite recent gains in global agricultural productivity, sustained, equitable, and stable access to food continues to be a concern in many parts of the world. This interdisciplinary research project will examine why people in one region are faced with food insecurities in order to gain insights that will have wide-ranging utility. This project will enhance understanding of the critical societal problem of food security and will communicate potential solutions to decision makers by developing tools that synthesize qualitative and quantitative information from geography, sociology, decision science, and sustainability science as well as cross-disciplinary knowledge on food insecurity. Because food security is a complex problem that involves many stakeholders across different spatial scales and within different contexts, the investigators will use computer modeling to enhance understanding of the key elements of the food system, explain food insecurity, and provide tools for long-term policy making for improved food availability, access, and stability.<br/><br/>This research project will focus on a study of food insecurity in dryland West Africa, a region where changing environmental conditions and socioeconomic systems have left many people hungry despite increases in agricultural productivity. The investigators will develop and test a collection of small, independent computer models to describe and analyze different aspects of the food system. They will use mental modeling, multilevel structural equation modeling, agent-based modeling embedded in a geographic information system, and system dynamics modeling in an integrative, participatory, and iterative manner in order to examine mechanisms affecting food security. Mental modeling will help depict and communicate stakeholder perceptions, while multilevel structural equation modeling will be used to explain how individual attributes and structural factors affect food availability. Agent-based modeling embedded in a geographic information system will help describe spatial and temporal variability of food access, thereby explaining how individual behaviors link with livelihood vulnerability, while system dynamic models will evaluate how the dynamics of climate change, drought, hunger, and humanitarian relief over time impact on food security. Each model will build a progressively richer understanding of the problem, and an overarching scenario study tool will encapsulate the models and provide a transdisciplinary platform for synthesizing information from the models through scenario generation and evaluation. Model development, evaluation, and application will be informed by on-the-ground discussions with stakeholders in the study region. This project is supported through the NSF Interdisciplinary Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (IBSS) competition.","crimson_battery","IBSS: Participatory-Ensemble Modeling to Study the Multiscale Social and Behavioral Dynamics of Food Security",
"1449188","SAVI: Collaborative Research: Fostering New Collaborations in Open Online Community Data Research: Prototyping an Open Collaboration Data Factory","CNS","INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARC, Cyber-Human Systems (CHS), Science Across Virtual Instits","8/1/2014","7/26/2016","Susan Winter","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","M. Mimi McClure","7/31/2017","$104,996.00 ","Katherine Shilton, Brian Butler, Matt Germonprez","sjwinter@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","CSE","1640, 7367, 8077","5914, 5918, 5936, 5937, 5946, 5948, 7916, 8058","$0.00 ","Open online communities (OOC), such as Wikipedia or free and open source software (FOSS) development projects, have emerged as significant drivers of innovation, economic activity and social well-being. OOCs play important roles in a wide variety of areas, such as software development, knowledge management, education, health and scientific discovery. With support from both American and international funding agencies, scholars from diverse disciplines, including computer science, sociology, mathematics, economics, physics, anthropology, organization science and communications, have been studying OOCs to build disciplinary understanding. However, differences in data and method impede the development of coherent understandings across disciplines. The study of OOCs is nascent, and as yet not much attention has been paid to the development of principles and systems for sharing data and detailed methodological approaches. These gaps limit scientific progress around OOCs even as they are increasing in importance for organizing and accomplishing work. The goal of this Science Across Virtual Institutes (SAVI) project is to build an international inter-disciplinary community of scholars who can collaborate to overcome disciplinary differences in research aims, data and method. The supported collaboration will enable synthesis of OOC research, which in turn will increase the coherence of scientific and public knowledge across disciplines that study OOCs, making OCCs more productive and effective. <br/><br/>The project design is based on the principle that research collaborations among scholars from multiple disciplines are more likely to develop from actively engaging potential collaborators in a shared activity, rather than simply getting them together in a room to talk. Accordingly, the project will involve participants in a series of working groups, workshops and hackathons focused on the activity of specifying, designing and prototyping an ?Open Collaboration Data Factory? (OCDF). The long-term vision for the OCDF includes a common set of easily accessible and replicable research datasets, and tools and processes that support research addressing the challenges of OOC systems, such as workflow tools to encourage creation of high-quality datasets; practice guidelines to facilitate consistent application of common research methods; documented research and resource exemplars to support coherent mapping of theory, data-based measures and available analytic tools; and ethical and privacy guidelines for processing OOC data. The SAVI funds will support coordination work, meetings and collocated prototyping among OOC researchers from diverse disciplines in the USA and Europe to build community through taking the initial steps towards this vision. The project will also include an initial phase inventorying research communities and research questions to in order to identify, characterize and annotate available datasets and software tools and identify strategies for increasing compatibility between them. All products and outcomes of the project will be made available under open licenses to further promote the reproducibility of studies and methods.<br/><br/>This is designated as a Science Across Virtual Institutes (SAVI) award and is co-funded by NSF's Office of International and Integrative Activities.","lime_battery","SAVI: Collaborative Research: Fostering New Collaborations in Open Online Community Data Research: Prototyping an Open Collaboration Data Factory",
"1452915","CAREER: Social Networks - Processes, Structures, and Algorithms","CCF","ALGORITHMIC FOUNDATIONS","7/1/2015","2/2/2015","Grant Schoenebeck","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Continuing grant","Tracy J. Kimbrel","6/30/2020","$201,155.00 ","","schoeneb@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","CSE","7796","1045, 7926, 7932","$0.00 ","This project seeks to develop a rigorous theoretical understanding of complex and strategic network processes, network structure, and algorithms for network properties.�� Social networks are an abstraction used to study social structure via pair-wise social interactions, and have proven useful in analyzing how local actions affect global trends.� Better understanding of social networks promises a better understanding of and the ability to influence a wide range of phenomena, including:� what technologies/practices people and firms adopt, how information is transmitted and aggregated, and how network structure relates to the agents' ability to search within the network.� In all of these instances individuals' activities can have a global-scale impact, which is mediated by a network.� The increasing presence of computer-accessible data (e.g., websites, user-generated content, usage data from telecommunications, apps, web-browsing, etc.)� has rekindled an interest in this field because of the new ability to gather data to test theories on a large scale.� This project seeks to develop new algorithms and theoretical frameworks to help fully make use of these data.<br/>�<br/>This project will develop and apply traditional tools, insights, and approaches from theoretical computer science including functional analysis, graph theory, combinatorics, linear algebra, probabilistic analysis, linear and semidefinite program hierarchies, complexity theory, and game theory to the study of network processes and structure.� This project will transform the way we use social network data by: 1) developing the technical tools required to achieve a better understanding of specific complex and strategic processes (including those mentioned above), 2)� identifying network structures that are efficiently verifiable and are useful for understanding nuances in the network processes,� and 3)� improving our understanding of certain network processes by explicitly accounting for agents' strategic reasoning.� The technical content of this project will have direct applications to related fields such as probability, economics, sociology, and statistical physics.� Additionally,� a key goal of this project is to move beyond worse-case analysis; if successful, this will pave the way to exporting theoretical computer ideas to many disciplines where their current application is limited due to its fixation on worst-case hardness---in particular fields that feature networks such as biology and epidemiology. The PI plans to develop curriculum to introduce computer science topics to high school students and involve undergraduates in his research.","lime_atom","CAREER: Social Networks - Processes, Structures, and Algorithms",
"1461534","Collaborative Research: Bayesian State-Space Models for Behavioral Time Series Data","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","6/1/2015","3/26/2015","Hernando Ombao","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","5/31/2018","$159,991.00 ","","hombao@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1333","","$0.00 ","This research project will develop novel statistical models and inferential methods for the analysis of multi-domain behavioral data and time series with complex temporal and dependence structures. This research has the potential to advance the knowledge on the neural underpinnings of human and animal behavior. Neuroscience studies often involve the analysis and integration of data from different domains, such as behavioral and neural-derived data. The focus of this project will be on developing statistical methods for studying temporal data derived from functional magnetic resonance imagining (fMRI) and local field potentials, such as neural-derived brain signals. These methods also are applicable to other types of brain signals, such as electroencephalograms and magnetoencephalograms. These statistical approaches will integrate data from different domains and could be used by behavioral scientists to directly test for associations between decision making and brain response. The statistical tools that will be developed in this project are general and could be used to advance knowledge in other fields that collect temporal data with complex structure, such as sociology (network modeling), environmental sciences, linguistics, and signal processing.<br/><br/>The project will develop Bayesian state-space models for activation and connectivity in fMRI data. These models will be used to simultaneously estimate the hemodynamic behavior in local areas of the brain and to estimate inter-dependence between brain regions in a network, while taking into account variations across subjects and differences across experimental conditions. The Bayesian state-space models and related inferential tools then will be extended to consider associations between the neural-derived brain signals and behavioral data under the context of behavioral experiments. Bayesian state-space models for brain connectivity using electrophysiological signals also will be developed. To deal with high computational demands for inference resulting from increased model complexity and massive data, the methods will be implemented using parallel computing.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Bayesian State-Space Models for Behavioral Time Series Data",
"1632659","Workshop: Collaborative Research: The Great Plains: An Environmental History","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","8/1/2016","7/12/2016","Kathleen Brosnan","OK","University of Oklahoma Norman Campus","Standard Grant","Wenda Bauchspies","7/31/2017","$13,000.00 ","","kbrosnan@ou.edu","201 Stephenson Parkway","NORMAN","OK","201 Stephenson Parkway, NORMAN, OK","730199705","4053254757","SBE","7603","1353, 9150, 7556","$0.00 ","The proposed four-day interdisciplinary workshop on ""The Great Plains: An Environmental History"" will be hosted by the University of Oklahoma in May 2017. This interdisciplinary workshop will explore the environmental history of the North American Great Plains from western Texas to southern Canada. This workshop will enhance interdisciplinary dialogue in environmental studies. It will expand academic knowledge of the Great Plains. The workshop will be free and open to the public. It will be podcast and tweeted live. The published book will inform contemporary policy debates on the environment. It will explain why certain technologies succeed and others fail in regards to human habitation and resource management. It will provide an opportunity to members of the public to consider the Great Plains as a complex ecosystem that includes human interactions from a historical perspective.<br/><br/>This proposed interdisciplinary workshop will offer a scholars the opportunity to re-conceptualize the Great Plains from the perspective of technological adaptations rather than only ecological disasters. By exploring the elemental and persistent themes of water, grasses, animals, and energy, the workshop will discuss the complex ways in which shifting technologies sustained human life, advanced diverse societies, and altered human relations with the region's myriad ecologies. The workshop will integrate the perspectives and research methodologies of different fields to forge an analysis of the Great Plains at the intersection of environment, culture, and technology. The workshop will involve scholars from environmental history, energy history, anthropology, geography, sociology, Native American studies, and environmental science, policy and management.","crimson_battery","Workshop: Collaborative Research: The Great Plains: An Environmental History",
"1637129","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Income Distribution and Redistribution in Rich Countries Under Finance-led Capital Accumulation","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2016","7/11/2016","Ho-Fung Hung","MD","Johns Hopkins University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$5,135.00 ","Daniel Thompson","hofung@jhu.edu","3400 N CHARLES ST","Baltimore","MD","3400 N CHARLES ST, Baltimore, MD","212182608","4105168668","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1637129<br/>Ho-fung Hung<br/>Daniel Thompson<br/>Johns Hopkins University <br/><br/>Inequality has increased in the United States and other rich countries over the last four decades. Scholars seeking to explain these trends have given much attention to deindustrialization and globalization, but a related trend, financial sector growth, is understudied. Finance is the largest source of corporate profits in most rich countries, but the sector employs few and has high earnings dispersion. Looking beyond the financial sector itself, social scientists have argued that financial sector influence has led to rising inequality within non-financial firms and declining redistribution in welfare states. To understand the relationship between finance and inequality, this dissertation will examine across 18 countries and over 40 years the effects of financial sector growth on five distributional outcomes: wage inequality, unemployment, tax progressivity, income transfers, and net inequality. This dissertation will contribute to academic scholarship on comparative inequality and comparative politics, in which few works have examined financial sector growth. It will also contribute to public debate on the causes of rising inequality as well as public policy on issues related to inequality and redistribution.<br/><br/>The project will investigate the association between financial sector growth and inequality as well as the mechanisms through which this relationship takes place. Theoretically, the project draws on macro-comparative political economy, power resource theory, and institutional analysis, and it potentially will offer contributions to each theoretical perspective. It combines two methodological approaches. First, a statistical analysis will examine distributional outcomes in 18 countries over a period of 40 years. These will be used to identify general patterns and associations and frame the relationships for closer study. Second, qualitative, historical case studies of the United States, Germany, and Sweden will examine more closely the causal processes and intervening variables that link financial sector growth and rising inequality, while accounting for these countries' variation in institutional context. This more detailed causal analysis can improve understanding of the statistical associations identified in the quantitative analysis.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Income Distribution and Redistribution in Rich Countries Under Finance-led Capital Accumulation",
"1632908","Doctoral Dissertation Research: International Students and Talent Retention Strategies in the United States","SMA","SciSIP-DDRIG","9/1/2016","7/5/2016","Roger Waldinger","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Maryann Feldman","8/31/2017","$4,448.00 ","Calvin Ho","waldinge@soc.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","SBE","7009","7626, 9179","$0.00 ","As American universities recruit more international students, businesses and policymakers are paying more attention to the role that these students could play in the US labor market. International students are particularly valuable to science and technology industries, since they are more likely than domestic students to study STEM subjects. The US does not have specific policies in place to retain foreign-born graduates in the workforce. Canada, like most other advanced industrial countries, has implemented talent retention strategies (TRSs) that encourage foreign students to stay by giving them easier access to work permits, permanent residency, and citizenship. Furthermore, talent retention is a persistent theme in immigration policy debates there. This project uses documentary evidence and interviews with policymakers and advocates to explain why TRSs passed in Canada but not in the US. This is an important issue for NSF funding because the structure of the scientific labor force underlies all aspects of science and innovation policy. Some of the world's most rigorous and most advanced science is done in American universities and research institutes. Any change in immigration policy that affects skilled workers and higher education will have an effect on American science and American scientists. As such, it is in the NSF?s interest to support scientifically rigorous, politically unbiased research on the immigration policymaking process. <br/><br/>The SciSIP grant funds semi-structured interviews with policymakers and advocates in the Washington, DC area with interests in immigration and the STEM workforce. In addition, the PI specifically targets actors in the academic science and information technology industries, which have historically been highly dependent on foreign-born skilled workers. These interviews include advocates on all sides of the policy debate. Interviews in Canada have already been supported by competitive grants from other funders. The PI transcribes the interview transcripts from Ottawa and DC, combines them into a dataset with legislative debates on this issue, and codes the entire dataset for themes using qualitative data analysis software. Themes are derived both inductively from the source material and deductively from the literature. This project contributes empirical data about how immigration policy is made and who is involved in making it. At the theoretical level, this project results in a revision of theories of policymaking that are relevant to public policy researchers across the social sciences. Existing theoretical frameworks can explain why some countries have chosen to implement TRSs, but they fall short in explaining negative cases like the US. Political economy approaches, for example, predict that advanced democracies have a high level of openness towards the migration of skilled workers, as the social and political costs are minimal but the economic benefits are significant and highly concentrated in the hands of business elites. Yet despite the fact that policy elites and business interests have reached a consensus in favor of skilled migration, the US has not developed policies to encourage international students to stay in the country. Bringing in additional insights from sociology, economics, human geography, and political science, this dissertation seeks to solve this puzzle.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: International Students and Talent Retention Strategies in the United States",
"1637010","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Shared Consciousness and Collective Action","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/15/2016","6/7/2016","Aaron McCright","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","5/31/2017","$11,999.00 ","Crystal Eddins, Glenn Chambers","mccright@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Shared Consciousness and Collective Action<br/><br/>This dissertation investigates the origins and influence of Africans' collective consciousness (or shared identity and way of thinking) in the years prior to the 1791-1804 Haitian Revolution, the most successful slave uprising of the modern era. This research proposes to examine the relationship between collective consciousness and important forms of resistance between the years 1750 and 1791. The project addresses the following questions. What was the role of Africa-inspired rituals in shaping collective consciousness? How did this collective consciousness influence patterns of escape from enslavement? How and why did patterns of escape from enslavement change over time and space in the few decades before the Haitian Revolution?<br/><br/>Preliminary results suggest the following hypotheses. First, Africa-inspired ritual events were gathering spaces for rebels to raise oppositional consciousness, campaign for freedom, and mobilize recruits. Second, runaways' social ties, knowledge of specific destinations, self-assertive behaviors, and longer durations of escape seem to be reasonable indicators of an oppositional consciousness. Third, runaways strategically responded to structural and environmental windows of opportunity (such as natural disasters, changes in colonial law, and geographic proximity to isolated zones). To test these hypotheses, the Co-PI will perform (a) qualitative and quantitative content analysis of over 11,000 digitally archived Haitian runaway slave advertisements; (b) a systematic review of primary documents held in several key archives in the Americas and Europe; (c) a systematic review of critical secondary sources published during and since the period of study; and (c) qualitative field research in present-day Haiti. The findings on antecedents to the Haitian Revolution will improve our understanding of the role of shared consciousness, social ties and networks, and human cultural expressions in collective action processes.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Shared Consciousness and Collective Action",
"1317428","Algorithms for Measurement Model Specification Search","DMS","CDS&E-MSS, CDS&E","7/1/2013","6/26/2013","Peter Spirtes","PA","Carnegie-Mellon University","Standard Grant","Andrew D. Pollington","12/31/2016","$429,964.00 ","Richard Scheines","ps7z@andrew.cmu.edu","5000 Forbes Avenue","PITTSBURGH","PA","5000 Forbes Avenue, PITTSBURGH, PA","152133815","4122689527","MPS","8069, 8084","9263","$0.00 ","When scientists in many fields such as educational research, psychometrics, sociology, economics, etc. are interested in knowing the values of, or inferring causal relations between variables that they cannot directly measure, they typically record several survey or test ""items"" that are thought to be indicators of latent variables of interest, e.g. ""mathematical ability"" (educational research) or personality traits such as ""impulsiveness"" (psychometrics). Although it is rare that a latent variable is measured perfectly by any single indicator, estimates of the latent variables, and their associations with other latents, can be obtained by employing multiple indicators for each latent variable. If the multiple indicator model is correctly specified, then in a wide range of cases the estimates obtained are consistent and have desirable statistical properties, and these estimates can be used to search for causal models among the latents. If the model is mis-specified, then estimators are typically biased, and search for causal models among the latents is more difficult. A number of problems make it difficult to find a correctly specified measurement model from background knowledge and samples of the measured variables: a) associations among items are often confounded by additional unknown latent common causes, b) there are often a plethora of alternative models that are consistent with the data and with the prior knowledge of domain experts, c) there may be non-linear dependencies among latent variables, or linear relationships among non-Gaussian latent variables, and d) there may be feedback relationships among latent variables. The investigator and his colleagues perform research that utilizes and generalizes recent work in algebraic statistics on rank constraints on sub-matrices of the measured correlation matrix that are robustly entailed by given measurement models, in order to construct reliable search algorithms that allow scientists to find correctly specified measurement models using background knowledge and sample data, and to use the measurement models to reliably construct models that specify how the latent variables are causally related to each other. <br/><br/>Since the early 20th century, beginning with the work of Charles Spearman on finding statistical evidence for a single trait he called ""general intelligence,"" there has been controversy on how to scientifically determine the dimensions of personality and mental abilities; e.g. is there one dimension to intelligence (""general intelligence"") or are there many different kinds of intelligence? Although there has been a great deal of progress in psychometrics, psychometric methods are still rapidly evolving. The investigators and their colleagues study how to use evidence from survey data to reliably conclude how many dimensions various personality and mental abilities have, and to construct psychological theories based on these conclusions. Potential applications include building effective educational interventions, building effective surveys for detecting personality disorders, and building effective surveys for measuring mental health in individuals and in populations.","salmon_battery","Algorithms for Measurement Model Specification Search",
"1324157","Collaborative Research: Experimental Research on Religious Scripture and Political Behavior in the Muslim World","SES","POLITICAL SCIENCE","2/1/2014","5/18/2015","Tarek Masoud","MA","Harvard University","Continuing grant","Lee Walker","1/31/2017","$122,787.00 ","","Tarek_Masoud@harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","SBE","1371","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","This award satisfies Division B, Title V, Sec. 543 of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013 (P.L. 113-6, enacted on March 26, 2013). <br/><br/>This project explores how Islam shapes the political attitudes and behavior of Muslims. Scholars and policymakers have long argued that Islam's influence on the way Muslims think and act is powerful. This is reflected not just in the social conservatism of Muslim-majority societies, but also in the fact that Islamist parties, such as Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, Tunisia's Ennahdha Party, Indonesia's Party of Prosperous Justice, or Morocco's Party of Justice and Development, routinely earn large vote shares. However, this belief that religion exerts a stronger pull than other types of ideologies on Muslims has never been put to any kind of scientific test. The project includes a series of experiments in Morocco and Indonesia that will explore whether Muslims are more responsive to political appeals using religious language and symbols than they are to ones made in non-religious terms. <br/><br/>The project includes two nationally-representative surveys that enable tests to determine whether experimental subjects who are exposed to religiously-based arguments for or against particular policies are more likely to be influenced than those who are exposed to non-religiously based arguments. This will permit the exploration of critical questions: whether the use of religious rhetoric endows Islamic clerical leaders and Islamist parties with a built-in advantage over their secular rivals, and whether Muslim receptivity to religious appeals varies by policy domain. The project will ask whether Islam has a more potent influence on Muslims' attitudes toward such matters as cooperation with the United States, gender equality, violence, or relations with non-Muslims than it does on their attitudes toward the economy or policies on health, welfare, and taxation. And finally, the project will address how social factors affect individual receptivity to religious rhetoric: Are vulnerable populations, such as women, the young, the unemployed, and inhabitants of urban slums more likely than others to be influenced by Islamist political speech? The project will not only add to the understanding of Islam and politics, but will also yield insights into the challenge of radical Islamism.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit: The importance of this research is twofold. First, it advances knowledge in political science, sociology, and anthropology about how religion drives the words, thoughts, and actions of Muslims citizens and their political leaders. Given the continued potency of political Islam in the Muslim world, the increasingly violent struggles between Islamists and their rivals in such countries as Egypt and Tunisia, and the religious justifications that undergird much of the region's anti-Americanism, this question is of urgent scholarly and policy interest. Second, the project has the potential to help transform the study of religion and politics and catalyze further research by demonstrating how scientific, experimental methods can be bring precision to the study of religion's role in shaping behavior. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: The project has considerable potential to benefit society in two ways. First, exploring the effects and limits of religious rhetoric can help to promote political pluralism in the new democracies of the Muslim world, by enabling secular and liberal political parties to learn how to compete effectively with those who deploy religious rhetoric. Second, the project has important implications for the national security of the United States. By studying the impact of religious rhetoric on Muslim hearts and minds, we can contribute to efforts to counter the extremist, illiberal, and anti-American discourses that are so often grounded in religion. In addition to generating academic products, the PIs plan to disseminate the findings of this research to policy and public audiences.","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: Experimental Research on Religious Scripture and Political Behavior in the Muslim World",
"1518894","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Identity Work, Stigma, and Status among Wounded Warriors","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","7/1/2015","Meredith Kleykamp","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,164.00 ","Sidra Montgomery","kleykamp@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Increased public attention on wounded and injured veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars has popularized the term ""wounded warrior."" Wounded warrior is a new and symbolic phrase that parallels a shift in the larger social context for post-9/11 wounded veterans. In this dissertation, This research examines the symbolic meaning of ""wounded warrior"" and how this construct creates social expectations that impact the community and everyday lives of wounded post-9/11 veterans. Using in-depth interviews with 40 post-9/11 wounded/injured/ill veterans in combination with a content analysis of the mainstream media coverage of wounded veterans over the past decade, this project analyzes how the wounded warrior context shapes the social relationships, identity, and structural resources for the newest generation of wounded veterans. Because of the increased recognition of invisible injuries such as Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), this research uses the visibility of one?s injuries (whether they are seen or not and the nature of the injury) as a comparative focal point for analyzing the convergence and divergence of the portrayal and personal experiences of veterans within the wounded warrior construct.<br/><br/>The wounded warrior construct provides a theoretically unique opportunity to examine interactions among stigma, identity, and status. How veterans enact their identity and role as a wounded veteran also illuminates how veterans' status as a wounded warrior can counteract the stigma from their service-connected injuries/disabilities/illnesses. Using qualitative data from in-depth interviews with post-9/11 wounded veterans and a content analysis of recent media coverage, this study addresses three specific interactions among stigma, identity work and visibility: (1) how and when the potential stigma of an individual veteran's injuries is counteracted by their status as a wounded warrior, (2) how this affects the management of their identity through identity work, and (3) how individuals with different visible and less visible injuries negotiate within the same identity framework and expectations of being a wounded warrior. The complex range of injuries and whether those injuries align with stereotypical images of a ""wounded warrior"" changes veterans? ability to offset stigma, bringing into question how, when, and under what circumstances this stigma offsetting process occurs. Completed interviews highlight how veterans? identity work as a wounded warrior is influenced by public perceptions of wounded veterans and point to differences in the experience of stigma by context, such as visibility/recognition of injuries and across social situations. This project will provide an interpersonal view of the trials associated with reintegration into civilian society experienced by those who have been wounded in recent military conflicts.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Identity Work, Stigma, and Status among Wounded Warriors",
"1323962","Collaborative Research: Experimental Research on Religious Scripture and Political Behavior in the Muslim World","SES","POLITICAL SCIENCE","2/1/2014","8/3/2015","Amaney Jamal","NJ","Princeton University","Continuing grant","Lee Walker","1/31/2017","$324,692.00 ","","ajamal@princeton.edu","Off. of Research & Proj. Admin.","Princeton","NJ","Off. of Research & Proj. Admin., Princeton, NJ","85442020","6092583090","SBE","1371","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","This award satisfies Division B, Title V, Sec. 543 of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013 (P.L. 113-6, enacted on March 26, 2013). <br/><br/>This project explores how Islam shapes the political attitudes and behavior of Muslims. Scholars and policymakers have long argued that Islam's influence on the way Muslims think and act is powerful. This is reflected not just in the social conservatism of Muslim-majority societies, but also in the fact that Islamist parties, such as Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, Tunisia's Ennahdha Party, Indonesia's Party of Prosperous Justice, or Morocco's Party of Justice and Development, routinely earn large vote shares. However, this belief that religion exerts a stronger pull than other types of ideologies on Muslims has never been put to any kind of scientific test. The project includes a series of experiments in Morocco and Indonesia that will explore whether Muslims are more responsive to political appeals using religious language and symbols than they are to ones made in non-religious terms. <br/><br/>The project includes two nationally-representative surveys that enable tests to determine whether experimental subjects who are exposed to religiously-based arguments for or against particular policies are more likely to be influenced than those who are exposed to non-religiously based arguments. This will permit the exploration of critical questions: whether the use of religious rhetoric endows Islamic clerical leaders and Islamist parties with a built-in advantage over their secular rivals, and whether Muslim receptivity to religious appeals varies by policy domain. The project will ask whether Islam has a more potent influence on Muslims' attitudes toward such matters as cooperation with the United States, gender equality, violence, or relations with non-Muslims than it does on their attitudes toward the economy or policies on health, welfare, and taxation. And finally, the project will address how social factors affect individual receptivity to religious rhetoric: Are vulnerable populations, such as women, the young, the unemployed, and inhabitants of urban slums more likely than others to be influenced by Islamist political speech? The project will not only add to the understanding of Islam and politics, but will also yield insights into the challenge of radical Islamism.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit: The importance of this research is twofold. First, it advances knowledge in political science, sociology, and anthropology about how religion drives the words, thoughts, and actions of Muslims citizens and their political leaders. Given the continued potency of political Islam in the Muslim world, the increasingly violent struggles between Islamists and their rivals in such countries as Egypt and Tunisia, and the religious justifications that undergird much of the region's anti-Americanism, this question is of urgent scholarly and policy interest. Second, the project has the potential to help transform the study of religion and politics and catalyze further research by demonstrating how scientific, experimental methods can be bring precision to the study of religion's role in shaping behavior. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: The project has considerable potential to benefit society in two ways. First, exploring the effects and limits of religious rhetoric can help to promote political pluralism in the new democracies of the Muslim world, by enabling secular and liberal political parties to learn how to compete effectively with those who deploy religious rhetoric. Second, the project has important implications for the national security of the United States. By studying the impact of religious rhetoric on Muslim hearts and minds, we can contribute to efforts to counter the extremist, illiberal, and anti-American discourses that are so often grounded in religion. In addition to generating academic products, the PIs plan to disseminate the findings of this research to policy and public audiences.","crimson_atom","Collaborative Research: Experimental Research on Religious Scripture and Political Behavior in the Muslim World",
"1539864","Doctoral Dissertation Research Grant: Legal Action and Collective Bargaining for Workers in a Global Economy","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","5/29/2015","Kiyoteru Tsutsui","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,983.00 ","Patricia Chen","tsutsui@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","1331","9179, 1331","$0.00 ","This project studies how workers engage in either legal action or collective bargaining for dispute resolution. It seeks to understand how and when workers are able increase their rights, even when they find little political support and have limited capacities within the workplace. The study asks three questions: (1) Why do some low wage workers use legal action while others use collective bargaining?, (2) When workers attempt collective bargaining why are some able to bring management to the bargaining table and others not?, and(3) If taking legal action, why do some workers attempt to use the law to expand their rights when others do not? <br/><br/>To answer these questions, the study compares six different cases of labor disputes and focuses on the role of management, state authorities, and non-governmental organizations working in labor (labor NGOs) in southern China. The data collection combines interviews with workers, attorneys, and non-government organizations associated with the cases with legal and organizational documents from archived files on each case, media reports and participant observation notes from court hearings and meetings with workers. It is expected that managers and firm-level factors will play a crucial role in workers' decisions to use legal action or attempt collective bargaining. State authorities are critical in the collective bargaining process, and their intervention enables some workers to bring management to the bargaining table. Finally, labor NGOs may guide some workers to use legal action to expand their rights; on the other hand, workers who do not engage with labor NGOs use the courtroom strictly for recovering material interests. This study will increase our knowledge of the contemporary industrial setting in China. Such knowledge will improve business and political relationships with China, leading to a more productive relationship to the advantage of all parties.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research Grant: Legal Action and Collective Bargaining for Workers in a Global Economy",
"1519124","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Population Neuroscience Approaches to Minority Discrimination and Health","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2015","5/15/2015","Jacob Cheadle","NE","University of Nebraska-Lincoln","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$11,997.00 ","Elizabeth Straley","jcheadle2@unl.edu","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier","Lincoln","NE","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier, Lincoln, NE","685031435","4024723171","SBE","1331","1331, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","This project examines the relationship between perceiving/experiencing discrimination and mental and physical health outcomes. Research in diverse populations suggests that discrimination creates cumulative health effects over time. Moreover, research on stress and stigma indicates that some populations are at particularly high risk for developing mental disorders, suicidality, self-harm, and substance dependence, especially those in 18-24 age range. This project will advance scientists? understanding of how discriminatory social interactions impact mental and physical health at a critical time in the life course, with an emphasis on how social interactions produce neurological changes in our brains.<br/><br/> The project employs social neuroscience design principles, combining survey methodology with experiments and neurophysiological measurements. Using Respondent Driven Sampling (RDS), a representative sample of college-age students will be recruited to participate in a survey that focuses on discrimination experiences, mental and physical health and behaviors, and social support networks. As a case in point, the sample will include individuals who identify as lesbian gay, or bisexual (LGB) and demographically matched heterosexual students. From this larger sample, a subsample will be drawn to participate in the second phase in which participants? brain responses to experimental tasks will be measured using electroencephalography (EEG) to capture neural event-related potentials (ERP) in response to target-locked stimuli that simulate ostracism. By focusing on health-related behaviors, self-reported mental health, and neurologically-based biomarkers known to correlate with mental and physical health outcomes, this study will advance scientists? understanding of the ways social interactions and constructs impact health through their impact on our brains.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Population Neuroscience Approaches to Minority Discrimination and Health",
"1519453","IUSE/PFE RED: Developing Changemaking Engineers","EEC","PFE\RED - Professional Formati, IUSE","7/1/2015","6/9/2015","Chell Roberts","CA","University of San Diego","Standard Grant","Elliot Douglas","6/30/2020","$1,954,532.00 ","Ming Huang, Rick Olson, Michelle Camacho, Susan Lord","croberts@sandiego.edu","5998 Alcala Park M264","San Diego","CA","5998 Alcala Park M264, San Diego, CA","921102492","6192606825","ENG","012Y, 1998","110E, 1340, 9178, 8209","$0.00 ","The University of San Diego's (USD) Shiley-Marcos School of Engineering is embarking on a multi-year project to revolutionize engineering education with the goal of developing ""Changemaking"" Engineers. The project addresses how an engineering education that integrates traditional technical skills, enhanced social awareness and an integrated professional spine produces connected learning that empowers graduates to improve society - by practicing engineering within the contexts of social justice, peace, humanitarian advancement, and sustainable practices. An incubation model is being developed where new courses in a general engineering program are designed to include rich changemaker context and professional skills. Learning modules from these classes are transferred to the more traditional, disciplinary engineering programs to promote change in those curricula. The project examines the impact of infusing a professional spine and the changemaker engineering canon on student motivation and attitudes by measuring the impact in attracting and retaining a more diverse population of engineering students. The new course materials developed are being published as companion materials for traditional course textbooks. Finally, a national symposium of scholars and commensurate community is being established to promote changemaking engineering. <br/><br/>This work explores how collaborative leadership can revitalize engineering culture to produce a transformative engineering canon. By co-generating a cultural transformation within all departments of the Shiley-Marcos School of Engineering, a faculty learning community is being developed through a model of collaborative leadership and faculty empowerment. The project team includes all of the engineering department chairs, the dean of engineering, and the associate dean, and a faculty member in sociology. In building cultural consensus for the new initiatives in engineering education, an understanding of which mechanisms of leadership/shared-leadership can produce positive or negative responses is being developed. Workshops, faculty support mechanisms and other methods are being used to: 1) advance cultural development, 2) create collaborative abilities and values, and 3) develop a spine of professional competencies. The combined partnerships with industry, the community, and faculty outside of engineering help to promote the vision of creating changemaking engineers prepared to face society's challenges.","golden_battery","IUSE/PFE RED: Developing Changemaking Engineers",
"1449209","SAVI: Collaborative Research: Fostering New Collaborations in Open Online Community Data Research: Prototyping an Open Collaboration Data Factory","CNS","INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARC, Cyber-Human Systems (CHS), Science Across Virtual Instits","8/1/2014","7/31/2014","Sean Goggins","MO","University of Missouri-Columbia","Standard Grant","M. Mimi McClure","7/31/2017","$194,949.00 ","","gogginss@missouri.edu","115 Business Loop 70 W","COLUMBIA","MO","115 Business Loop 70 W, COLUMBIA, MO","652110001","5738827560","CSE","1640, 7367, 8077","5914, 5918, 5936, 5937, 5946, 5948, 7916, 8058, 9150","$0.00 ","Open online communities (OOC), such as Wikipedia or free and open source software (FOSS) development projects, have emerged as significant drivers of innovation, economic activity and social well-being. OOCs play important roles in a wide variety of areas, such as software development, knowledge management, education, health and scientific discovery. With support from both American and international funding agencies, scholars from diverse disciplines, including computer science, sociology, mathematics, economics, physics, anthropology, organization science and communications, have been studying OOCs to build disciplinary understanding. However, differences in data and method impede the development of coherent understandings across disciplines. The study of OOCs is nascent, and as yet not much attention has been paid to the development of principles and systems for sharing data and detailed methodological approaches. These gaps limit scientific progress around OOCs even as they are increasing in importance for organizing and accomplishing work. The goal of this Science Across Virtual Institutes (SAVI) project is to build an international inter-disciplinary community of scholars who can collaborate to overcome disciplinary differences in research aims, data and method. The supported collaboration will enable synthesis of OOC research, which in turn will increase the coherence of scientific and public knowledge across disciplines that study OOCs, making OCCs more productive and effective. <br/><br/>The project design is based on the principle that research collaborations among scholars from multiple disciplines are more likely to develop from actively engaging potential collaborators in a shared activity, rather than simply getting them together in a room to talk. Accordingly, the project will involve participants in a series of working groups, workshops and hackathons focused on the activity of specifying, designing and prototyping an ?Open Collaboration Data Factory? (OCDF). The long-term vision for the OCDF includes a common set of easily accessible and replicable research datasets, and tools and processes that support research addressing the challenges of OOC systems, such as workflow tools to encourage creation of high-quality datasets; practice guidelines to facilitate consistent application of common research methods; documented research and resource exemplars to support coherent mapping of theory, data-based measures and available analytic tools; and ethical and privacy guidelines for processing OOC data. The SAVI funds will support coordination work, meetings and collocated prototyping among OOC researchers from diverse disciplines in the USA and Europe to build community through taking the initial steps towards this vision. The project will also include an initial phase inventorying research communities and research questions to in order to identify, characterize and annotate available datasets and software tools and identify strategies for increasing compatibility between them. All products and outcomes of the project will be made available under open licenses to further promote the reproducibility of studies and methods.<br/><br/>This is designated as a Science Across Virtual Institutes (SAVI) award and is co-funded by NSF's Office of International and Integrative Activities.","lime_battery","SAVI: Collaborative Research: Fostering New Collaborations in Open Online Community Data Research: Prototyping an Open Collaboration Data Factory",
"1528739","Collaborative Research: Modeling Unobserved Heterogeneity in Network Formation","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/1/2015","8/26/2015","Dino Christenson","MA","Trustees of Boston University","Standard Grant","Lee Walker","8/31/2017","$142,533.00 ","","dinopc@bu.edu","881 COMMONWEALTH AVE","BOSTON","MA","881 COMMONWEALTH AVE, BOSTON, MA","22151300","6173534365","SBE","1333, 1371","9178, 9179","$0.00 ","General Summary<br/><br/>The statistical analysis of networks has become increasingly important in the social and behavioral sciences and has been applied to a diverse range of problems in recent years. Indeed, the National Science Foundation's agenda setting statement for the social sciences, ""Rebuilding the Mosaic,"" recognizes Network Science as one of four critical research frontiers. Yet, while the statistical analysis of networks continues to attract a great deal of attention from scholars and the broader public, the quantitative study of networks remains in the early stages of development. Only recently have the statistical theory and computational techniques been developed to rigorously analyze various types of networks. The central aim of the project is to develop a new model for identifying statistical effects on network formation that explicitly accounts for unobserved variation. <br/><br/>Technical Summary<br/><br/>The PIs develop an estimator that accurately captures unobserved heterogeneity in tie formation in network models. They do so by extending the widely applied Exponential Random Graph Model (ERGM) to include a frailty term that accounts for unmeasured, unobserved, or unimagined heterogeneity. Unaccounted heterogeneity is a significant issue in the study of social processes; thus, the inability to effectively model it is an important gap that limits the applicability of ERGMs in many areas of potential interest. In fact, one of the two major assumptions of the ERGM is that the model is correctly specified, and coefficient bias or model degeneracy may result from violations of this assumption. The PIs propose to extend the ERGM to account for this problem through the introduction of a frailty term, thereby creating a Frailty Exponential Random Graph Model (FERGM). In addition to defining the FERGM and providing Monte Carlo simulations to demonstrate the model properties and comparative benefits of the approach, the PIs apply the FERGM to substantive topics in the social and health sciences and provide related statistical software for others to do so as well. Advances in network modeling will be useful across scientific disciplines, including sociology, economics, statistics, computer science and behavioral health. The focus on social science applications will aid practitioners in public policy by allowing them to more accurately evaluate the importance of policy on economic and social outcomes. Finally, the project directly promotes teaching, training, and learning and broadens participation of underrepresented groups in scholarly activity.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Modeling Unobserved Heterogeneity in Network Formation",
"1253549","CAREER: Observing the world through the lenses of social media","IIS","INFO INTEGRATION & INFORMATICS","3/1/2013","6/28/2016","David Crandall","IN","Indiana University","Continuing grant","Maria Zemankova","2/28/2018","$459,235.00 ","","djcran@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","CSE","7364","1045, 7364, 9251","$0.00 ","Every day, millions of people across the world take photos and upload them to social media websites. Their goal is to share photos with friends and others, but collectively they are creating vast repositories of visual information about the world. Each photo is an observation of how the world looked at a particular point in time and space. Aggregated together, these photos could provide new sources of observational data for use in disciplines like biology, earth science, social science or history. This project is investigating the algorithms and technologies needed for mining these large collections of photographs and noisy metadata to draw inferences about the physical world. The project has four research thrusts: (1) investigating techniques for identifying and correcting noise in metadata like geo-tags and timestamps, (2) developing algorithms for extracting semantic information from images and metadata, (3) creating methods for robust aggregation of noisy evidence from multiple photos, (4) validating these techniques on interdisciplinary applications in biology, sociology, and earth science.<br/><br/>The project is laying the foundation for using visual social media as a new source of observational data for a variety of scientific disciplines. The educational component is preparing students for the next generation of ""big data"" jobs through new undergraduate and graduate courses and online instructional materials. Undergraduate students (particularly from under-represented groups) are recruited to participate in the research program and encouraged to pursue scientific careers. An annual workshop is planned to educate general audiences, particularly senior citizens, about data mining and social media. Source code, datasets, course materials, and other results of the project will be disseminated to the public via the project web site (http://vision.soic.indiana.edu/career/).","lime_atom","CAREER: Observing the world through the lenses of social media",
"1302435","CIF: Medium: Collaborative Research: New Approaches to Robustness in High-Dimensions","CCF","COMM & INFORMATION FOUNDATIONS, SIGNAL PROCESSING","7/1/2013","8/27/2015","Sujay Sanghavi","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Continuing grant","John Cozzens","6/30/2017","$695,369.00 ","Constantine Caramanis","sanghavi@mail.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","CSE","7797, 7936","7924, 7936","$0.00 ","Rapid development of large-scale data collection technology has<br/>ignited research into high-dimensional machine learning. For<br/>instance, the problem of designing recommender systems, such as those<br/>used by Amazon, Netflix and other on-line companies, involves<br/>analyzing large matrices that describe users' behavior in past<br/>situations. In sociology, researchers are interested in fitting<br/>networks to large-scale data sets, involving hundreds or thousands of<br/>individuals. In medical imaging, the goal is to reconstruct<br/>complicated phenomena (e.g., brain images; videos of a beating heart)<br/>based on a minimal number of incomplete and possibly corrupted<br/>measurements. Motivated by such applications, the goal of this<br/>research is to develop and analyze models and algorithms for<br/>extracting relevant structure from such high-dimensional data sets in<br/>a robust and scalable fashion.<br/><br/><br/>The research leverages tools from convex optimization, signal<br/>processing, and robust statistics. It consists of three main thrusts:<br/>(1) Model restrictiveness: Successful methods for high-dimensional<br/>data exploit low-dimensional structure; however, many real-world<br/>problems fall outside the scope of existing models. This proposal<br/>significantly extends the basic set-up by allowing for multiple<br/>structures, leading to computationally efficient algorithms while<br/>eliminating negative effects of model mismatch. (2) Non-ideal data:<br/>Missing data are prevalent in real-world problems, and can cause major<br/>breakdowns in standard algorithms for high-dimensional data. The<br/>second thrust devises relaxations and greedy approaches for these<br/>non-convex problems. (3) Arbitrary Outliers: Gross errors can arise<br/>for various reasons, including fault-prone sensors and manipulative<br/>agents. The third thrust proposes efficient and randomized algorithms<br/>to address arbitrary outliers.","lime_atom","CIF: Medium: Collaborative Research: New Approaches to Robustness in High-Dimensions",
"1632633","Workshop: Collaborative Research: The Great Plains: An Environmental History","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","8/1/2016","7/12/2016","Brian Frehner","OK","Oklahoma State University","Standard Grant","Wenda Bauchspies","7/31/2017","$12,000.00 ","","brian.frehner@okstate.edu","101 WHITEHURST HALL","Stillwater","OK","101 WHITEHURST HALL, Stillwater, OK","740781011","4057449995","SBE","7603","1353, 7556, 9150","$0.00 ","The proposal will fund a four-day interdisciplinary workshop on ""The Great Plains: An Environmental History."" The University of Oklahoma will host the workshop in May 2017. This interdisciplinary workshop will explore the environmental history of the North American Great Plains from western Texas to southern Canada. This workshop will enhance interdisciplinary dialogue in environmental studies. It will expand academic knowledge of the Great Plains. The workshop will be free and open to the public. It will be podcast and tweeted live. The published book will inform contemporary policy debates on the environment. It will explain why certain technologies succeed and others fail in regards to human habitation and resource management. It will provide an opportunity to members of the public to consider the Great Plains as a complex ecosystem that includes human interactions from a historical perspective.<br/><br/>This interdisciplinary workshop will offer a scholars the opportunity to re-conceptualize the Great Plains from the perspective of technological adaptations rather than only ecological disasters. By exploring the elemental and persistent themes of water, grasses, animals, and energy, the workshop will discuss the complex ways in which shifting technologies sustained human life, advanced diverse societies, and altered human relations with the region's myriad ecologies. The workshop will integrate the perspectives and research methodologies of different fields to forge an analysis of the Great Plains at the intersection of environment, culture, and technology. The workshop will involve scholars from environmental history, energy history, anthropology, geography, sociology, Native American studies, and environmental science, policy and management.","crimson_battery","Workshop: Collaborative Research: The Great Plains: An Environmental History",
"1619644","Collaborative Research: Specification and Estimation of Exponential Family Random Graph Models for Weighted Networks","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE","9/1/2015","12/15/2015","Bruce Desmarais","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","3/31/2017","$17,813.00 ","","desmarais@polsci.umass.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1333, 1371","","$0.00 ","Understanding the effect of network synergies on dynamic relational processes plays an important role in a number of real-world research settings. Examples include understanding what forms of monetary and social policy reduce the instance of international financial contagion, and the role of different physiological conditions on the activity levels of different interconnected regions in the human brain. Statistical insights into areas such as these require analytical methods which deal with both the presence and absence of ties as well as tie strengths between units in networks. This project focuses on the development and implementation of statistical methods and software for the analysis of weighted (i.e., tie strength) network data. The generalized exponential random graph model (GERGM) is a powerful tool for formulating and testing hypotheses about networks. The project will advance the current state of development of the GERGM by (1) developing a better understanding of the space of network probability distributions that can be formulated with the GERGM; developing Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods for estimation, which will broaden the class of GERGM specifications for which estimation is feasible; (3) developing special-case GERGM constraints that facilitate the study of correlation matrices as networks; and (4) developing asymptotic theory regarding the properties of the GERGM family. As part of this research, two illustrative applications of the GERGM will be developed. The first one involves the analysis of global environmental public policy networks, which offers insight into the network properties of global environmental faction and cooperation. The second application involves the analysis of neural activity networks in humans, which aims to understand complex dependencies connecting regions of the brain. <br/><br/>Given the recent explosion in the application of statistical network models in fields as diverse as sociology, genetics, neuroscience, political science, physics, finance, linguistics, and ecology, it is expected that the statistical methods developed in this project will be relevant to a number of different fields. One of the leading fields, in terms of the prominence of weighted network data, is neuroscience. One of the aims of this project is to contribute to the multi-agency initiative on Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies. This project offers two additional contributions that will facilitate the statistical study of weighted networks. First, this project will contribute and disseminate free and open-source statistical software that permits user-friendly applications. Second, the material developed in this project will be incorporated into graduate-level research methods coursework and workshops.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Specification and Estimation of Exponential Family Random Graph Models for Weighted Networks",
"1407142","Emerging Issues in Modeling Longitudinal Observations with Censoring","DMS","STATISTICS","9/1/2014","7/1/2016","Bin Nan","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Continuing grant","Gabor J. Szekely","8/31/2017","$300,000.00 ","","bnan@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","Longitudinal studies--commonly referred to as cohort studies in epidemiology or panel studies in sociology--are of fundamental importance in understanding time related issues within the same group of subjects. In longitudinal studies, the collection of information can be stopped at the end of the study, or at the time of dropout of a study participant, or at the time of the occurrence of a terminal event. Death, the most common terminal event, often occurs in aging cohort studies and fatal disease follow-up studies, e.g., organ failure or cancer studies. If not handled appropriately, the occurrence of terminal event can cause serious bias in statistical inference, leading to incorrect conclusions. The current literature has primarily focused on modeling the longitudinally measured variables given that the terminal event has not happened yet, hence the observed repeated measures ""terminated"" by a terminal event are implicitly treated as incomplete data. Such a modeling strategy, however, is inappropriate for many studies when some effect of interest is directly related to the terminal event time, such as the medical cost data. In this project, a conditional modeling strategy will be implemented, which treats repeated measures up to a terminal event as complete data and directly models the effect of terminal event time on a response variable. A related problem is some predictor variable subject to limit of detection in regression analysis, which occurs frequently in studies involving assay measures, where measures of certain substance (e.g., hormone, air pollutant, or water contaminant) become unreliable when their concentrations are below certain level due to technology limitation. The current literature has focused on primarily ad hoc imputation or unverifiable model assumptions for the predictor variable subject to limit of detection, but these methods generally yield biased results. This project will tackle this issue using robust statistical methods, which follow similarly the conditional modeling strategy for terminal events, and yield more reliable results than existing approaches.<br/><br/>The project investigates modeling strategies that model the effect of terminal event time directly by treating it as a covariate in longitudinal studies. In such statistical models, the usual relationship of interest between the longitudinally measured response variable and covariates is kept when data collecting time is far from the terminal event time, and the relationship becomes increasingly related to the terminal event time when data collecting time is close to the terminal event. Such models provide much more intuitive and sensible interpretations, and can be applied to recurrent events data with the presence of a terminal event. Both parametric and semiparametric models will be considered. Estimating methods for parameters in the proposed models will be investigated. The asymptotic theory for the case that the terminal event time is subject to right censoring will be a major focus. A closely related set of longitudinal regression problems with censored covariates considered in this project is about the issue of detection limit for covariates. The validity of any estimating approach relies on how reliably one can model and estimate the tail distribution of the covariate subject to limit of detection. Due to the feature of this type of data, parametric models are not verifiable and nonparametric models are not able to gain any useful information about the missing tail distribution. The project investigates semiparametric models, which are able to gain useful information from observed data and are insensitive to model misspecification of the missing tail probabilities.","salmon_atom","Emerging Issues in Modeling Longitudinal Observations with Censoring",
"1561299","EAGER: Illuminating the Role of Science Funding on Disparities in Science","SMA","SCIENCE OF SCIENCE POLICY, SCIENCE RESOURCES STATISTICS","9/1/2016","7/20/2016","Cassidy Sugimoto","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Maryann Feldman","8/31/2018","$234,128.00 ","","sugimoto@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","SBE","7626, 8800","7626, 8050, 7916","$0.00 ","Although women have been matriculating at a higher rate than men for decades, they are still underrepresented in elite scholarly positions, produce proportionally less, and receive fewer citations to their work. One possible explanation is the allocation of resources to female scientists: women fare poorly in disciplines where research is expensive, and male authorship is disproportionately associated with contributing resources, whereas female authorship is significantly more likely to be associated with labor roles, such as performing the experiment. This research analyzes the role that federal funding plays in either mitigating or exacerbating gender disparities in the scientific workforce. The research examines potential disparities and seeks to understand how interventions through federal funding could address disparities and allow for better utilization of the scientific workforce. The short-term goal of this project is to illuminate the relationships between science funding, sector of employment, gender, and outcome metrics. The longer-term goal is to provide data that can be used for further study of the scientific funding system. <br/><br/>A multivariate analysis is used to analyze the role of funding on scientific productivity and impact. Data is analyzed over a decade to estimate effects of funding concentration and returns to scale in funding. This project is dependent upon the integration of heterogeneous data sources. Novel methodological techniques are used that allow for robust analyses of the highly contextual environment of science funding and scientific productivity. This work advances knowledge in numerous fields. The integration algorithms have many potential applications in an era of big data--providing novel methodological innovations for the analysis of large-scale heterogeneous data; the outcomes of the project informs research in fields such as informatics, sociology, and economics and will have practical implications for science policy.","crimson_battery","EAGER: Illuminating the Role of Science Funding on Disparities in Science",
"1439591","BCC: Collaborative Research: Designing SKOPE: Synthesized Knowledge of Past Environments","SMA","Data Infrastructure","9/1/2014","8/25/2014","Keith Kintigh","AZ","Arizona State University","Standard Grant","William J. Badecker","2/28/2017","$157,128.00 ","Ann Kinzig","kintigh@asu.edu","ORSPA","TEMPE","AZ","ORSPA, TEMPE, AZ","852816011","4809655479","SBE","8294","7433","$0.00 ","An important focus of scientific research is understanding the complex interactions between human societies and the climatic, physical, and biological environments on which they depend, and which they, in turn, influence. Past environments, of course, were often quite different from those we experience today. Furthermore, important processes of social and environmental change operate slowly and are sometimes visible only when viewed over decades or centuries. In order to study social and natural processes operating over anything other than short periods in recent decades, long-term environmental knowledge specific to particular locations and times is essential. <br/><br/>Unfortunately, state-of-the-art data on past environments are difficult to find and even more difficult to integrate and interpret. Under the direction of Dr. Kintigh and his colleagues, the project will develop plans for an online tool, SKOPE (Synthesized Knowledge of Past Environments), that will provide state-of-the-art information about the environment experienced by humans at a given a place and time, past or present. Using explicit scientific procedures, it will process the data to yield a cutting-edge synthesis of environmental information specifically tailored to the user's request. Initial development is planned for the Southwest US, but SKOPE's design will be designed to be easily extended to other places and times. Once implemented, SKOPE will be freely accessible on the Internet. It will be applicable in such fields as sustainability, archaeology, sociology, economics, anthropology, and ecology as well as for resource management and planning. For example, it will directly benefit archaeologists comparing the social consequences of long-term climate change across different civilizations and ecologists investigating long-term changes in biodiversity. Planners could use its long-term environmental reconstructions to investigate vulnerabilities in existing infrastructure that are outside the experience provided by the historic record. Students and members of the general public could learn how ancient environments differed from contemporary ones in places they study, inhabit, or visit. <br/><br/>SKOPE will access online databases of modern and historic observational data (for example, on rainfall, temperature, and plant and animal distributions) as well as databases of indicators for past environments (for example, rainfall reconstructed from tree-ring widths, and plant remains and animal bones found in dated archaeological sites). Scientific experts in the interpretation of different classes of data will develop procedures that transform these diverse environmental observations and indicators into a thoroughly documented scientific synthesis of the environment for the time and place of interest. The design of SKOPE will be guided by the needs stated by potential users in meetings with academic, public-, and private-sector professionals. The project will identify key sources of data on current and past environments and will generalize the analytical procedures required to achieve useful synthesis. Subsequent development could extend the tool to additional areas and times and incorporate more classes of environmental data.","crimson_battery","BCC: Collaborative Research: Designing SKOPE: Synthesized Knowledge of Past Environments",
"1545913","PIRE: Promoting Urban Sustainability in the Arctic","OISE","PIRE","4/1/2016","7/21/2016","Robert Orttung","DC","George Washington University","Continuing grant","Maija M Kukla","3/31/2021","$1,338,406.00 ","Timothy Heleniak, Marlene Laruelle, Dmitry Streletskiy, Nikolay Shiklomanov","rorttung@gmail.com","2121 Eye Street NW","Washington","DC","2121 Eye Street NW, Washington, DC","200522000","2029946255","O/D","7742","1079, 5914, 5915, 5935, 5942, 7561","$0.00 ","Abstract<br/><br/>Arctic PIRE: Promoting Urban Sustainability in the Arctic<br/><br/>As Arctic ice continues to melt, humans will enter the high north in growing numbers to develop local resources and expand transportation links. The result of this increased activity will be intensified urban development in extreme conditions. The purpose of this project is to promote greater urban sustainability in the Arctic so that the ultimate human impact on the larger environment will be as small as possible. To achieve such a broad international goal, this Partnership for International Research and Education (PIRE) will bring together scientists from the U.S., Canada, Denmark/Greenland, Norway and Russia. Developing strong cooperation among the various Arctic countries, as well as other European and Asian countries with growing interests in the north, is necessary to ensure that future development in this polar region is managed effectively. With the U.S. chairing the Arctic Council from May 2015 to May 2017, this PIRE will improve the ability of policy-makers to promote sustainability by providing tools to measure progress, identify areas of most urgent need, select verifiable best practices, examine opportunity costs, and determine where external actors can have the greatest impact.<br/><br/>Specifically, this project will develop an Arctic Urban Sustainability Index, which will make it possible to assess the consequences of human activities in the region across a number of important dimensions. The Index will be used to measure sustainability outcomes and progress toward achieving those outcomes in a wide variety of Arctic cities. Key elements of the index will include thawing permafrost, a boom-bust economic cycle, and an influx of migrant workers with the resulting increase in social tensions. Our central hypothesis posits that: Measuring sustainability efforts across the full range of scale and mechanisms and compiling the results in the form of an index will trigger efforts to improve urban planning. The project will be multi-disciplinary in nature, incorporating the analytical tools of geography, climatology, architecture, design, sociology, and political science. Importantly, the Index will not be limited to use in the Arctic. It could be effective in measuring sustainability in other extreme climate conditions, such as in the new cities rising in the Persian Gulf and in places like Phoenix, Arizona.","aquamarine_atom","PIRE: Promoting Urban Sustainability in the Arctic",
"1461724","Symposium: Health in Africa and the Post-2015 Millennium Development Agenda","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","4/1/2015","3/6/2015","Ezekiel Kalipeni","IL","University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign","Standard Grant","Holly Hapke","9/30/2017","$49,540.00 ","Diana Grigsby, Juliet Iwelunmor","kalipeni@illinois.edu","SUITE A","CHAMPAIGN","IL","SUITE A, CHAMPAIGN, IL","618207473","2173332187","SBE","1331, 1352","1331, 1352, 9278","$0.00 ","This award provides support for a three day conference titled ""Health in Africa and the Post-2015 Millennium Development Agenda"" to be held at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign on May 20-22, 2015. The symposium will facilitate an interdisciplinary examination of the health conditions in Africa 15 years after the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that were adopted in 2000 by the United Nations. The MDGs are a set of eight international development goals with a vision to create a world with less poverty, hunger and disease, greater survival prospects for mothers and their infants, better educated children, equal opportunities for women, and a healthier environment; a world in which developed and developing countries work in partnership for the betterment of all. The objective of this symposium is to assess the success and failures of the Millennium Development Goals in the areas of health and disease in sub-Saharan Africa. A core group of researchers based at the University of Illinois in the fields of medical geography, public/global health, and epidemiology will lead the symposium. An interdisciplinary group of both young and well established researchers from Africa and North America, including graduate and undergraduate students from underrepresented groups, will be invited to participate in the three day event.<br/><br/>Despite the commitment of the United Nations and its member nations to achieve the Millennium Development goals by 2015, progress on three of the goals related to health is yet to be realized. Sub-Saharan Africa continues to bear the burden of a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and Ebola and faces an emerging prevalence of non-communicable disease such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. The challenges posed by this dual burden of disease and its demographic, economic, social and epidemiological impacts are enormous in a continent facing resource-constrained health systems. This conference will place particular focus on the socio-environmental and geopolitical factors affecting health conditions in Africa. Specific papers will examine these factors from different theoretical perspectives, including disease ecology, the demographic transition model, the epidemiologic transition and nutrition transition frameworks as well as globalization. Conference findings will be widely disseminated with the intent to advance recommendations for the ""Post-2015 Development Agenda"". The conference will also provide a forum to launch collaborative initiatives for mitigating the dual burden of disease in sub-Saharan Africa.","crimson_battery","Symposium: Health in Africa and the Post-2015 Millennium Development Agenda",
"1461497","Collaborative Research: Bayesian State-Space Models for Behavioral Time Series Data","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","6/1/2015","3/26/2015","Raquel Prado","CA","University of California-Santa Cruz","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","5/31/2018","$160,089.00 ","","raquel@ams.ucsc.edu","1156 High Street","Santa Cruz","CA","1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA","950641077","8314595278","SBE","1333","","$0.00 ","This research project will develop novel statistical models and inferential methods for the analysis of multi-domain behavioral data and time series with complex temporal and dependence structures. This research has the potential to advance the knowledge on the neural underpinnings of human and animal behavior. Neuroscience studies often involve the analysis and integration of data from different domains, such as behavioral and neural-derived data. The focus of this project will be on developing statistical methods for studying temporal data derived from functional magnetic resonance imagining (fMRI) and local field potentials, such as neural-derived brain signals. These methods also are applicable to other types of brain signals, such as electroencephalograms and magnetoencephalograms. These statistical approaches will integrate data from different domains and could be used by behavioral scientists to directly test for associations between decision making and brain response. The statistical tools that will be developed in this project are general and could be used to advance knowledge in other fields that collect temporal data with complex structure, such as sociology (network modeling), environmental sciences, linguistics, and signal processing.<br/><br/>The project will develop Bayesian state-space models for activation and connectivity in fMRI data. These models will be used to simultaneously estimate the hemodynamic behavior in local areas of the brain and to estimate inter-dependence between brain regions in a network, while taking into account variations across subjects and differences across experimental conditions. The Bayesian state-space models and related inferential tools then will be extended to consider associations between the neural-derived brain signals and behavioral data under the context of behavioral experiments. Bayesian state-space models for brain connectivity using electrophysiological signals also will be developed. To deal with high computational demands for inference resulting from increased model complexity and massive data, the methods will be implemented using parallel computing.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Bayesian State-Space Models for Behavioral Time Series Data",
"1407732","Support Vector Machines for Censored Data","DMS","STATISTICS","7/1/2014","6/17/2016","Michael Kosorok","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Continuing grant","Gabor J. Szekely","6/30/2017","$410,000.00 ","","kosorok@unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","Recent advances in medical research, including those related to the study of the human genome, have led to the development of personalized medicine. Personalized medicine describes medical treatment that is tailored to a patient based on the patient's genetic profile and other personal biomedical information. Developing personalized medical treatment regimens is challenging since it involves learning from high-dimensional patient data. Moreover, data from personalized-medicine clinical studies are typically subject to censoring, i.e., the data are not fully observed, due, for example, to patients dropping out during the course of a study. While statistical analysis of censored data is a well-developed area, most of the existing statistical tools were developed under restrictive assumptions that often do not hold for high-dimensional data settings. It is therefore important to develop an approach for analysis of censored data that can be applied to today's high-dimensional data sets. In this project we will develop novel machine learning techniques that can handle both high-dimensional and censored data. The algorithms that we will develop will be applicable not only in the field of personalized medicine, but also in other disciplines in which high-dimensional censored data are common, such as engineering, economics, and sociology.<br/><br/>In this research, we will extend the framework of support vector machines (SVMs) to censored data. First, we will develop support vector learning techniques for different types of censored data, including right censored data, interval censoring, current status data, and multistage decision problems with censored data. We will then study the theoretical properties of these estimators, including their finite-sample properties and their asymptotic behavior. For this goal we will develop novel methodology, including new finite-sample tools for censored data. Finally, we will apply the tools that we develop to real-world data. We will compare the proposed learning methods with existing methods using theoretical tools, simulation, and analysis of real-world data. Finally, we will develop software for each of the different algorithms that we study. This software will be developed such that it can be integrated into existing machine learning software.","salmon_atom","Support Vector Machines for Censored Data",
"1408672","CHS: Medium: The Use of Robots as Intermediaries to Gather Sensitive Information from Children","IIS","Cyber-Human Systems (CHS)","7/1/2014","6/28/2016","Cindy Bethel","MS","Mississippi State University","Continuing grant","Ephraim P. Glinert","6/30/2018","$920,844.00 ","David May, Deborah Eakin, Melinda Pilkinton","cbethel@cse.msstate.edu","PO Box 6156","MISSISSIPPI STATE","MS","PO Box 6156, MISSISSIPPI STATE, MS","397629662","6623257404","CSE","7367","7367, 7924, 9150, 9251","$0.00 ","A recent report entitled ""Child Maltreatment 2011"" issued by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Administration for Children and Families estimated that more than 3.7 million children were the subjects of at least one report of maltreatment, and that over 681,000 children were found to be unique victims of child maltreatment in the United States. This multidisciplinary research will compare the effectiveness of robot vs. human interviewers for gathering sensitive information from children, using situations in which this would commonly occur: cases of child eyewitness memory and child reports of bullying. The PI argues that the use of a robot as an intermediary during these so-called forensic interviews could reduce or eliminate unintentional cues observed in human interviewers that result in inaccurate reports by children. To validate her hypothesis the PI and her team will develop a systems architecture, an interactive user interface and an interactive robotic toolkit for interviewers, and perform a series of six studies involving children ages 8-11. The interdisciplinary research team is comprised of experts in human-computer interaction, human-robot interaction, robotics, psychology, sociology, and social work, and the project will make contributions to each of these domains. The team further includes a member of the legal profession as a consultant, who will iteratively evaluate the potential for extending the research findings to real-world legal proceedings and investigations. Preliminary research conducted by the PI has attracted attention from the law enforcement and legal communities, so if successful this project has the potential to transform information gathering for investigative purposes. The PI and her colleagues have been actively involved in community outreach in local middle schools and Boys and Girls Clubs with respect to the use of robots for eliciting information related to bullying, and this outreach will be extended to elementary school children involved in the current research. <br/><br/>The research goals for this project will be accomplished through the development of an integrated robotic toolkit based on a novel Interactive Social Engagement Architecture (ISEA) and a unique interactive user interface. ISEA provides a framework for the autonomous generation of robot behaviors for self-preservation and to convey social intelligence. The toolkit will be designed to integrate behavior-based robotics, human behavior models, cognitive architectures, and user input to increase social engagement between a human and system (robot, avatar, etc.). The interactive user interface will provide interviewers with the ability to use the robot as an intermediary for gathering sensitive information. ISEA has three primary parallel paths for processing robot behaviors: (1) verbal behaviors based on expert user input from the interactive user interface; (2) autonomous self-preservation behaviors if the robot is threatened that consist of both verbal and non-verbal responses; and (3) non-verbal autonomous behaviors generated from sensor data coming from the environment, the current internal state of the robot, user input, and prior knowledge from the knowledge base/long-term memory. As part of the research, six human studies will be conducted that use typical situations in which gathering sensitive information from children might occur. Three of these experiments will examine whether child eyewitness memory is more accurate when a robot rather than a human presents misleading information during an interview, while the other three will examine whether children who have been victimized by bullying will be more likely to disclose that victimization to a robot as opposed to a human interviewer. Some of these experiments will examine the role of gender both for humanoid robots and adult interviewers, using established forensic interview protocols, while others will examine whether interviewers high in social intelligence elicit more accurate child eyewitness memory and reports of bullying than those low in social intelligence (where social intelligence is defined by the use of gestural and facial non-verbal behaviors).","lime_atom","CHS: Medium: The Use of Robots as Intermediaries to Gather Sensitive Information from Children",
"1519047","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding Americans' Thinking about Inequality","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/17/2015","Naomi Gerstel","MA","University of Massachusetts Amherst","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$11,725.00 ","Jacklyn Stein","gerstel@soc.umass.edu","Research Administration Building","AMHERST","MA","Research Administration Building, AMHERST, MA","10039242","4135450698","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Growing economic inequality in the U.S. has captured the attention of many Americans. Across political ideologies and income ranges, most Americans are critical of the inequality in income and wealth they see in the U.S., and most Americans want a more equal distribution. However, contrary to long-standing theoretical expectations that would predict a rise in the demand for redistribution in response to increasing wealth and income concentration, recent evidence suggests that support for redistributive policy appears to decrease in response to increasing inequality. This research will make sense of Americans' confusing sentiments about redistributive policy through an in-depth examination of Americans' thinking about the phenomenon of economic inequality.<br/><br/>The muddled and dissonant nature of public opinion toward redistributive policies suggests the need for a study using qualitative methods that are uniquely suited to capture and make sense of these kinds of messy but influential sentiments. This research does just that, using in-depth interviews (divided among rich and poor neighborhoods) to probe the complexity of Americans' thinking about economic inequality while providing a powerful cross-time perspective through the creative re-engagement of an influential qualitative study on the topic from the early 1980s (Jennifer Hochschild's What's Fair?). Using a revisit to Hochschild?s site and methods to capitalize on the dramatic economic changes over the past several decades, this project extends her findings in new empirical directions. If, as the evidence suggests, a majority of Americans are dissatisfied with current income distributions, then understanding their desire for change and how it is connected or disconnected from their opinions about solutions is of importance to a broad range of stakeholders, including all of those scholars, policy makers, and citizens who seek to understand inequality and disparity.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding Americans' Thinking about Inequality",
"1459932","Language, Laws, and Labor Contracts in the 20th Century","SES","ECONOMICS, Science of Organizations","6/15/2015","6/9/2015","Suresh Naidu","NY","Columbia University","Standard Grant","Seung-Hyun Hong","5/31/2017","$160,000.00 ","W. Bentley MacLeod","sn2430@columbia.edu","2960 Broadway","NEW YORK","NY","2960 Broadway, NEW YORK, NY","100276902","2128546851","SBE","1320, 8031","","$0.00 ","This resaerch will contribute to our understanding of how firms and workers allocate authority, and how this can be organized to increase productivity and reduce conflict. These questions go back to Ronald Coase and Herbert Simon, as well as the institutionalist school of labor economics. Outside of economics, our results will relate to the large literature in labor and legal history, sociology, and American political development that has concerned itself with the role of the law in the labor contract. Our new integrated data set of labor laws and labor contracts will be of value to both qualitative and quantitative researchers interested in computational linguistics, contracts, law, and the history of U.S. labor unions in the 20th century. <br/><br/>The productivity gains associated with successful firm-worker relationships rely not only on the terms of written agreements, but also on the background legal institutions that interpret, enforce, and elaborate such agreements. The purpose of this research is to explore the complementary roles of laws and contracts through the construction and analysis of a new data set on collective bargaining agreements. After merging the contract data with data on laws and firms, we use natural language processing tools to extract those textual features of statutes, court cases, and contracts that matter for economic outcomes. We then address two central questions. First, does the law affect written contracts? Second, do contracts affect economic performance?","crimson_battery","Language, Laws, and Labor Contracts in the 20th Century",
"1637083","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Economic Incorporation of Immigrants Across the 50 United States","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/15/2016","6/9/2016","Patricia McManus","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","5/31/2017","$8,366.00 ","Lauren Apgar","pmcmanus@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Economic Incorporation of Immigrants Across the 50 United States<br/><br/>The past two decades have seen an explosion in the number of U.S. state laws targeted at immigrants. To regulate immigrant settlement, states have passed immigration laws that either sought to remove unauthorized immigrants from state jurisdiction or limited state involvement in immigrant removal. To regulate immigrant incorporation, states have passed immigrant rights laws that either excluded immigrants from work opportunities and state benefits or extended these opportunities and benefits to immigrants. While research has shown the detrimental effects of federal enforcement policies on immigrants' economic outcomes, little is known about how state laws impact immigrants' economic well-being. This dissertation asks how state policy shapes the economic incorporation of immigrants and their adult U.S.-born children. It tests the hypothesis that integrative immigrant rights laws are more effective at ensuring a productive immigrant population than laws seeking to remove unauthorized immigrants from state jurisdiction. <br/><br/>Because state-level immigration and immigrant rights laws are two distinct types of policy initiatives that could differentially influence immigrants' economic incorporation, the researchers create a state typology by categorizing states on these two axes. The typology is used to: 1) investigate the association between state policy arrangements and immigrants' labor force participation and employment; 2) examine if state policy context exacerbates or decreases the authorized-unauthorized immigrant wage gap; and 3) explore whether the effects of immigration and immigrant rights laws spill over to the U.S.-born children of immigrants' unemployment outcomes. The project applies multi-level quantitative methods to American Community Survey (ACS) and Current Population Survey (CPS) data from the years 1997 through 2014. Because the ACS and CPS do not provide data on legal status, cross-survey multiple imputation will be used to infer unauthorized status. This project anchors public discourse on immigrant integration in objective comparisons of immigrants' economic outcomes over time and across states. Results will enhance our understanding of the factors that foster immigrants? workforce participation and economic security, and can be used to inform future scholarly research and policy alike.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Economic Incorporation of Immigrants Across the 50 United States",
"1636972","Dissertation Research: Public Service Provision and Pockets of Effectiveness","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2016","7/14/2016","Ivan Ermakoff","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$11,934.00 ","Michael Roll","ermakoff@ssc.wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1636972<br/>Ivan Ermakoff<br/>Michael Roll<br/>University of Wisconsin Madison<br/><br/>The effective provision of basic public services is essential for reducing poverty in the developing world. In many countries, however, government agencies in charge of providing services like water, security, health services, and education are dysfunctional. Often, public sector reforms undertaken with international support have failed to remedy this situation. That is why the capacity of some government agencies to meet public service requirements in contexts marked by governmental ineffectiveness requires systematic attention. Focusing on subnational variation in organizational performance, this project examines why and how these organizations achieve satisfactory levels of performance. By exploring the micro-processes and mechanisms through which these pockets of effective public service provision emerge and become institutionalized, this project makes a theoretical contribution to understanding the origins of subnational institutional variation, institutional change, and development. The findings will also be of relevance to policymakers and international agencies working on corruption and public services. <br/><br/>Using a matched pairs design, the project compares government agencies in Nigeria that differ substantially in terms of public service provision. Based on semi-structured interviews, focus group discussions, non-participant observation, surveys, and the analysis of administrative data, process tracing and within-case analysis will be employed for identifying the processes and mechanisms at work and cross-case analysis for added leverage.","crimson_battery","Dissertation Research: Public Service Provision and Pockets of Effectiveness",
"1632471","New Methods for Molding Models to Specific Cases to Enhance Policy Predictions","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2016","7/6/2016","Nancy Cartwright","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","8/31/2017","$214,579.00 ","","ncartwright@ucsd.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","SBE","7603","","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This project aims to enhance policy effectiveness by focusing on ways to improve models that are used to estimate whether a social policy will achieve its intended outcomes when implemented in the setting at hand, in the way it would be implemented in that setting. The project will provide a systematic, theoretically grounded approach for deciding what kinds of evidence are good to collect, and for deciding how to put the evidence together to ascertain what it shows about the chances of success. Policy outcomes will always be uncertain, often greatly so. This project has promise to substantially improve predicting outcomes in individual cases by providing methods for molding models to the cases at hand. The results of this research will have potential to improve policy effectiveness and to suggest new kinds of scientific studies to support policy prediction; they will be disseminated across a number of policy domains.<br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>This project is an investigation of the kinds of evidence, both local and scientific, that can be used to build full enough models to make reasonable, albeit uncertain, policy predictions. The methodology is primarily analytic, and it builds on studies in the history, philosophy, and sociology of science on evidence, objectivity, and causal modeling. It also builds on the PI's recent work on evidencing singular causal claims and on causal mechanisms. The project involves in-depth study of cases in the natural and the social sciences, engineering, and the law of successful single-case prediction and post-hoc evaluation in complicated systems. It will develop categories of evidence, and it will refine and test the proposed model structure to see how well it fits successful cases. The project should contribute to the philosophical understanding of singular causation, currently a big topic in philosophy. It should advance understanding of causal modeling, in principle and in practice, especially in the social sciences.","crimson_battery","New Methods for Molding Models to Specific Cases to Enhance Policy Predictions",
"1160319","FRG: Collaborative Research: Unified statistical theory for the analysis and discovery of complex networks","DMS","STATISTICS","6/1/2012","3/29/2012","Peter Bickel","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Gabor J. Szekely","5/31/2017","$1,199,916.00 ","Haiyan Huang, Laurent El Ghaoui, Bin Yu, Noureddine El Karoui","bickel@stat.berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","MPS","1269","1616","$0.00 ","The investigators will develop a unified nonparametric theoretical framework to study stochastic network models and design scalable algorithms (and software) to fit these models. They intend to carry out the development and validation of their methods with collaborators in biology who have gathered extensive new data for the assessment of protein structure and determination of biological pathways particularly in Drosophila. Such problems are omnipresent in genomics and they expect their methods to carry over widely. They will also use networks with uncertainty measures to study relationships between words and phrases in a newspaper database in order to provide media analysts with automatic and scalable algorithms. In all cases they will focus on methods of general statistical confidence which have been lacking in work so far.<br/><br/>Our world is connected through relationships, among ""actors"" who can be people, organizations, words, genes, proteins, and more. Advancements of information technology have enabled collection of massive amounts of data in all disciplines for us to build relationships between these actors. These relationships can be effectively described as networks, and properties or patterns in these networks can be random or knowledge. Responding to this recent data availability and a huge potential for knowledge discovery, research in networks is attracting much attention from researchers in physics, social science, computer science, and probability. While contributing to the development of core statistical research, the proposed research will directly impact the interdisciplinary field of network analysis and the study of complex networks. The applications of their research results are diverse and well beyond the two fields studied in the proposal: genomics and media analysis. They include national security, communications, sociology, political science, and infectious disease. The statistical tools developed are unifying and could change how many scientists approach network analysis. As a result, statistical research will become more prominent in the networks community.","salmon_battery","FRG: Collaborative Research: Unified statistical theory for the analysis and discovery of complex networks",
"1638446","Conference: Agent-Based Modeling 2017: Agent-Based Models in the Social, Human-Environment, and Life Sciences","BCS","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2016","6/23/2016","Li An","CA","San Diego State University Foundation","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","2/28/2018","$94,996.00 ","B. Turner, Piotr Jankowski, Steven Manson, Shaowen Wang","lan@mail.sdsu.edu","5250 Campanile Drive","San Diego","CA","5250 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA","921822190","6195945731","SBE","1333, 1352","1333, 1352, 7556","$0.00 ","This award will support a workshop that will bring together experts from a broad range of fields to examine and advance the development and use of agent-based models (ABMs) in the social, human-environment, and life sciences. The conference will facilitate community-wide consideration of issues that enhance and broaden the value and utility of agent-based modeling for scholarly and practical purposes. The conference will advance a multi-faceted, community-based examination of current strengths and shortcomings of ABM development and use. The conference and its follow-up products will identify incentives and directions for many related fields to develop more robust, user-friendly tools based on service-oriented ABM designs and platforms. The workshop also has the potential to facilitate interactions between academic-based ABM developers and users and commercial companies in ways that may facilitate advances in ABM software and capabilities. Because of the diversity of fields from which participants are drawn, the conference will promote more interdisciplinary development and use of advanced methodologies.<br/><br/>The use of agent-based models has increased rapidly over the last two decades. The number of articles reporting the development or use of ABMs has increased at an exponential rate since the 1990s, spanning a diverse range of scientific communities that includes geography, ecology, human-environmental science, land-system science, and sociology. A strength of agent-based models has been the potential for representing agent-agent and agent-environment interactions, local-level information and heterogeneity, nonlinearity, feedback, and individual-level activity and decision-making. ABMs also are useful for integrating data and models across multiple systems and for addressing problems across spatial, temporal, and organizational scales. Despite these advances, a number of challenges confront ABM developers and users, including difficulty in model verification and validation, steep learning curves for non-modeling experts, and the lack of common standards or protocols, and limitations regarding their transparency and reusability. To address these challenges, more than three dozen individuals who are ABM modelers and users will gather to identify strengths and weaknesses in the state-of-the-science of agent-based modeling. Participants will engage in a set of discussions on a range of topics that may include model validation, modeling of human decisions, model transparency and reusability, and developing ABMs that can better use ""big data."" Participants also will identify resources, areas for collaboration, potential tasks, and future directions for the ABM community. Insights and products after the conclusion of the conference are expected to include a synthesis paper and several topical papers dealing with ABMs; a book about ABM science, technology, and application; and an online repository that shares useful ABM resources. Organizers expect this conference to be conducted during the spring months of 2017, most likely in San Diego, California.","crimson_battery","Conference: Agent-Based Modeling 2017: Agent-Based Models in the Social, Human-Environment, and Life Sciences",
"954125","CAREER: Graph Information System: Deciphering Complex Networks","IIS","INFO INTEGRATION & INFORMATICS","4/1/2010","7/14/2014","Xifeng Yan","CA","University of California-Santa Barbara","Continuing grant","Jun Huan","3/31/2017","$495,536.00 ","","xyan@cs.ucsb.edu","Office of Research","SANTA BARBARA","CA","Office of Research, SANTA BARBARA, CA","931062050","8058934188","CSE","7364","1045, 1187, 7364, 9215, HPCC","$0.00 ","Graphs and networks are ubiquitous, encoding complex relationships <br/>ranging from chemical bonds to social interactions. Hidden in these<br/>networks are the answers to many important questions in biology,<br/>business, and sociology. In order to analyze complex networks, users <br/>have to master sophisticated computing and programming skills. It <br/>indeed becomes a pain point for many scientists and engineers.<br/><br/>This project is to change the state of the art by developing a <br/>general graph information system, which is able to address the needs <br/>of searching and mining complex networks. Real-life networks are <br/>complex, not only having topological structures, but also containing <br/>heterogeneous contents and attributes associated with nodes and <br/>edges. The mixture of structures and contents raises two challenges <br/>that require new solutions for smarter and faster graph analysis. <br/>First, new types of graph search and mining operations, such as graph <br/>aggregation, graph association, and graph pattern mining, are <br/>emerging. Second, when graphs become complex and large, most of <br/>existing graph mining algorithms cannot scale well. <br/><br/>This project addresses these challenges and performs a <br/>comprehensive study of a general graph information system. <br/>The system includes three major components: complex graph search, <br/>graph pattern mining, and graph indexing. <br/>It covers emerging structure queries in social, <br/>biological, and information networks, new graph mining operators <br/>such as graph summarization and association, and innovative indexing<br/>methodologies, e.g., differential graph index.<br/><br/>This research is tightly integrated with education through student <br/>mentoring and curriculum development. Publications, software and <br/>course materials resulted from this project are disseminated on the <br/>project website: http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~xyan/gis.html.","lime_atom","CAREER: Graph Information System: Deciphering Complex Networks",
"1637050","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Who Wants to be an Engineer? Early Adolescence and Girls' Declining Interest in STEM","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/15/2016","6/7/2016","Michael Messner","CA","University of Southern California","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","5/31/2017","$11,847.00 ","Michela Musto","messner@usc.edu","University Park","Los Angeles","CA","University Park, Los Angeles, CA","900890001","2137407762","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Who Wants to be an Engineer? Early Adolescence and Girls? Declining Interest in STEM<br/><br/>Although science, technology, engineering, and mathematics [STEM] careers are among the highest paying and most in-demand jobs in the United States, men outnumber women in STEM by nearly four to one. Black and Latina women comprise a mere 4% of the STEM workforce. In middle school, girls begin losing interest and confidence in STEM, and only 13% of high school girls report math as a favorite subject. Existing research identifies gender stereotypes, or beliefs that boys are ""naturally"" better at STEM, as an overarching reason girls lose interest in STEM subjects and activities. However, there are currently three limitations within existing research: 1) Few studies have examined how girls' daily experiences in school shape their career aspirations; 2) Nearly all girls lose interest in STEM by the end of middle school, but existing research tends to study gender inequality in STEM during high school and beyond; 3) Few studies have identified why and how girls from marginalized backgrounds lose interest in STEM. When taken together, identifying the processes that contribute to girls? declining interest in STEM during early adolescence remains imperative to developing early interventions to increase the representation of girls and women in the STEM workforce.<br/><br/>Drawing upon 2.5 years of longitudinal participant observation and 170 interviews with students, teachers, and staff at a racially diverse public middle school in California, this project traces students' career aspirations as they transition across sixth through eighth grades. Previous research not only risks constructing children as passive recipients of stereotypes pertaining to gender and STEM, but also risks isolating gender from other systems of inequality. Moving beyond these limitations, this project highlights the active role students' interactions play in perpetuating inequality in STEM at the beginning of the occupational pipeline. In addition to contributing to gender, childhood, education, and work scholarship, this project has the potential to create enriched STEM learning environments and increase the representation of women?especially women from marginalized backgrounds?in STEM, thus helping contribute to a diverse and competitive STEM workforce.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Who Wants to be an Engineer? Early Adolescence and Girls' Declining Interest in STEM",
"1563618","An Integrated Social Science and Agent-based Modeling Approach to Improve Life Safety from Near-field Tsunami Hazards","CMMI","INFRAST MGMT & EXTREME EVENTS","6/1/2016","6/3/2016","Haizhong Wang","OR","Oregon State University","Standard Grant","David Mendonca","5/31/2019","$393,428.00 ","Daniel Cox, Lori Cramer","Haizhong.Wang@oregonstate.edu","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY","Corvallis","OR","OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY, Corvallis, OR","973318507","5417374933","ENG","1638","041E, 042E, 043E, 151E, 1576","$0.00 ","This project will develop fundamental understanding of how integrated social science and agent-based modeling approaches can improve life safety under threat of near-field tsunami hazards. The targeted hazard scenario is a magnitude 9.0 earthquake and tsunami from the Cascadia Subduction Zone, threatening communities along 1,000 miles of the US Pacific Northwest coastline. This project develops close collaboration with a number of organizations responsible for public safety during the response extreme natural hazards, including the Oregon Department of Transportation, Oregon Office of Emergency Management, Oregon Parks and Recreation, and Oregon Sea Grant. Social science data from diverse groups will contribute to a growing body of knowledge on evacuation decision-making. A collaboration with the Oregon Museum of Science of Industry (OMSI) will leverage the museum's ongoing activities, including those which reach underrepresented groups. Modeling source code will be shared and distributed.<br/><br/>The project integrates the disciplines of sociology with engineering to investigate multiple forms of tsunami information and its potential impact on evacuation decision-making by the general public and the unique professional community responsible for coastal visitor safety. The project objectives are (1) to identify the cognitive and social factors that influence multimodal evacuation decision-making behavior; (2) to utilize an Agent-Based Modeling framework to provide realistic/credible hypothetical scenarios for near-field tsunamis hazards; and (3) to determine the usability/acceptability of social science-informed agent-based modeling for understanding evacuation decision-making. This work will therefore improve understand of how decision-making affects life safety, with broad outreach to diverse audiences both to assess the feasibility of this approach and for purposes of outreach.","golden_battery","An Integrated Social Science and Agent-based Modeling Approach to Improve Life Safety from Near-field Tsunami Hazards",
"1602541","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Mechanisms Underlying Discrimination in the Labor Market","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","5/3/2016","Stephen Benard","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$11,747.00 ","Trenton Mize","sbenard@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602541<br/>Stephen Benard<br/>Trenton D. Mize<br/>Indiana University<br/><br/>Despite an increase in some legal rights and acceptance of same-sex relationships, gay men and lesbian women continue to face disadvantages in the labor market. Gay men earn less than comparable heterosexual men, and studies have shown that both gay men and lesbian women face hiring discrimination. Despite these initial studies establishing labor market inequalities for gay men and lesbian women, there remains little evidence to explain why the disadvantages exist. Multiple competing explanations exist, including: (a) disadvantaging stereotypes that link sexual orientation with assumptions of competence and ability, (b) stereotypes of gay men and lesbian women as less masculine/feminine than heterosexual men and women, and (c) a society and labor market that have preferences for traditional masculine behavior in high status occupations and leadership positions. <br/><br/>The investigator will complete two laboratory studies, two survey experiments, and a test with nationally representative survey data to examine hiring discrimination and the mechanisms underlying unequal treatment. Study 1 tests for hiring discrimination in entry-level jobs using both a controlled laboratory experiment and a survey experiment in a diverse sample. Study 2 examines hiring discrimination for positions of senior leadership using a controlled laboratory study and a survey experiment in a diverse sample. Study 3 uses nationally representative survey data to examine the existing patterns of labor market inequalities. The experimental studies provide key causal evidence of discrimination and the ability to test for underlying mechanisms, while the survey data provides generalizable and representative evidence. The project will provide key evidence to help address existing inequalities and will also serve as a training site for student research assistants who will learn experimental research techniques and methodology while working on the project.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Mechanisms Underlying Discrimination in the Labor Market",
"1152980","Collaborative Research: Women in Science and Technology Policy","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","5/15/2012","5/4/2012","Susan Cozzens","GA","Georgia Tech Research Corporation","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","4/30/2017","$179,487.00 ","","susan.cozzens@pubpolicy.gatech.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Atlanta","GA","Office of Sponsored Programs, Atlanta, GA","303320420","4048944819","SBE","7603","7956, 8605, 8815","$0.00 ","The work of science and technology (S&T) policymaking agencies in the United States is important to building knowledge and economic growth. These agencies make decisions about how to structure policies and programs for funding science and technology development, how to promote technology transfer and innovation, and how to use scientific and technical methods in federal regulation and oversight. This project investigates role that gender plays in the creation of science and technology policy through a study of women's careers in US federal policymaking. <br/><br/>Research across the social sciences has investigated the advantages of including diverse perspectives in decision-making, including the perspectives of men and women leaders. While there is much research on women in science and women in management or government, there is little previous research on the role of women leaders in science and technology policy. This project explores new ground by providing both qualitative and quantitative measures of women's participation and influence on science and technology policy at the federal level. Data collection focuses on leadership in S&T policymaking agencies from 1992-2008. Products include a multiyear, multiagency dataset of women's careers in S&T policy at the federal level. The research informs understanding of organizational processes from theories at the intersection of multiple social science disciplines and areas, including: science and technology studies; sociology; political science; public policy; management science; and economics. For example, whether variation in the organizational structures of S&T agencies shapes women's participation in science and technology policy is a question of wide intellectual interest. To science policy studies, this work contributes important insights on how leaders at agencies that fund science view their respective roles in the knowledge production processes. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts: Research funding is the lifeblood of science and engineering. This project contributes to our understanding of that vital role of S&T policymaking agencies by investigating the organization and leadership of federal level S&T policymaking agencies in the United States. Understanding how women leaders have contributed to the S&T policy agenda, how variation in the participation of women in different agencies has produced different outcomes, and what the anatomy of a healthy S&T policy sector looks like are important outcomes expected in this project. This project generates knowledge with practical implications for improving policy organization structures and practices, and a dataset that other researchers can use to investigate the relationship between gender and science policymaking.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Women in Science and Technology Policy",
"1519125","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Filipino Military Service & The Promise of Benefits","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2015","4/1/2015","Pamela Oliver","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Patricia White","12/31/2016","$11,991.00 ","Katrina King","oliver@ssc.wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","The PI's analyze the benefits promised to Filipino veterans as a case to explore how race and nation were constructed through empire and war. They analyze the period between 1934 and 1947 -- a time when the U.S., having already promised independence to the Philippines, recruited Filipinos in World War II. In exchange for their service, the U.S. promised citizenship and military benefits. But in 1946 the United States revoked this promise. No other national group was denied benefits. By focusing on this puzzling period of war and decolonization, the PI's explore how the competing interests of the state manifest in policies toward Filipinos. The overarching research questions are, (1) what was the logic organizing these polices? (2) how did government officials deploy the category of ""active military service"" in revoking military benefits from Filipinos? And (3) how did they invoke the concepts of race and nation in making these decisions? <br/><br/>To answer these questions, the PI's examine historical records from the National Archives in College Park, MD and from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library in Hyde Park, NY. By collecting data from multiple institutions, the PI's explore how various state agencies, President Roosevelt, his advisors, and and Filipino elites decided to grant and revoke military benefits and citizenship to Filipino non-citizen veterans and no other national group. The PI's explore different explanations for exclusion and examine them against one another. A multi-agency analysis gives the project additional leverage for understanding the contradictory and complicated logics of exclusion within the state. The project increases our understanding in the contemporary context of what inclusion and exclusion means in a rapidly diversifying society like the United States.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Filipino Military Service & The Promise of Benefits",
"1523101","SaTC:EDU: Capacity Building in Security, Privacy and Trust for Geospatial Applications","DGE","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","9/15/2015","9/16/2015","Gabriel Ghinita","MA","University of Massachusetts Boston","Standard Grant","Victor P. Piotrowski","8/31/2017","$237,783.00 ","Dan Simovici","gabriel.ghinita@umb.edu","100 Morrissey Boulevard","Dorchester","MA","100 Morrissey Boulevard, Dorchester, MA","21253300","6172875370","EHR","8060","9178, 9179, SMET","$0.00 ","Many mobile devices with GPS-positioning capabilities allow users to retrieve and share their geographical coordinates and such geospatial data is critical in many areas including traffic optimization, emergency response, disaster rescue missions or military intelligence. At the same time, there are serious concerns related to the security, privacy and trustworthiness (SPT) of the data since users disclose their coordinates and an adversary could derive sensitive information violating users' privacy, or could change the data leading, for example, to wrong conclusions in a crime investigation. SPT for geospatial data has been a subject of intensive research and its results have been gradually transferred into market products. However, there has been no transition to education and this project intends to build capacity for geospatial SPT education by developing six course modules. They will cover geospatial SPT from several different perspectives, with focus on data management, networking, data mining, and social issues. The modules can be integrated into upper-level high-school, community college, or university courses.<br/><br/>The dissemination plan includes workshops, seminars and other outreach activities at high schools, community colleges and universities to increase awareness on geospatial SPT issues and to disseminate project's resources to a broad audience. It is expected that the proposed course modules will be also used in other fields such as law, economics, sociology and other disciplines where mobile technology introduces new opportunities but also considerable challenges. The project intends to reach students from underrepresented groups through collaboration with institutions in the Pathways to Prosperity network.","mauve_battery","SaTC:EDU: Capacity Building in Security, Privacy and Trust for Geospatial Applications",
"1559577","Interrupting Place-Based Inequality: Building Sustainable Communities Through Shared-Equity Homeownership","BCS","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","7/15/2016","7/12/2016","Susan Saegert","NY","CUNY Graduate School University Center","Standard Grant","Holly Hapke","12/31/2019","$514,949.00 ","Erin Ruel, Deirdre Oakley, Mary Clare Lennon","ssaegert@gc.cuny.edu","365 Fifth Avenue","New York","NY","365 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY","100164309","2128177523","SBE","1331, 1352","1331, 1352","$0.00 ","Despite decades of affordable housing policies, stable and sustainable housing for low-income households is scarce and inequality is at an all-time high. Traditional models of low-income ownership have often led to financial losses, foreclosure, a return to renting, or negative home equity. Relocating low- income households to higher income communities has proven difficult to do and successful only under limited conditions. Missing from these models of low-income housing policy is an understanding of the formal economic and institutional arrangements that connect households to economic and social capital. Community Land Trusts (CLTs) present an alternative policy model that provides quality affordable housing through shared equity and institutional arrangements that directly and indirectly provide access to economic, social and cultural capital. CLTs also stabilize the housing market for communities and steward the land so that its uses serve the needs of people who live there. This study investigates the extent to which CLTs bring about improvements in residents' economic, cultural, and social capital and how they affect communities. The underlying hypothesis is that asset accumulation needs to be accompanied by ""ontological security"" -- the sense that the material and social worlds are trustworthy and constant -- if poor households are to advance. Looking beyond the individual, this study examines the extent to which CLTs are associated with increased community stability and well being. It aims to enlighten debates about how to balance public and private interests in housing, how to make the most of public subsidies, and how to integrate housing provision and community development. <br/><br/>The theoretical assumption of decades of low-income housing policy presumes that either market rate homeownership or relocation to more capital rich locations will facilitate the accumulation of economic, cultural and social capital. This study proceeds from an alternate analysis of the requirements for increased accumulation of different forms of capital. The institutional supports and obligations of CLTs and their community benefits are seen as critical in creating the conditions for the accumulation of economic, cultural and social capital by introducing stability into the lives of poor households and producing communities permanently accessible to and supportive of these households. Homeowners in two geographically dispersed CLTs serving ethnically and economically diverse low- and moderate -income populations will be surveyed along with comparison groups of other similar households seeking homeownership. The survey and CLT verified data will be used to examine how CLT homeownership affects household finances (economic capital), educational levels (cultural capital), community engagement (social capital), and sense of stability, safety and ability to move one's life forward (ontological security). Using multi-level models, individual and census data will be analyzed to better understand the community contexts of CLT and non-CLT households and to see how communities are affected by the presence of CLT homes. Census, housing and school data at the census tract level will be used to spatially examine the efficacy of CLT place-making and positive neighborhood effects by comparing previous respondent addresses to CLT and non-CLT present locations.","crimson_battery","Interrupting Place-Based Inequality: Building Sustainable Communities Through Shared-Equity Homeownership",
"1519189","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Identity and Audience in Social Media","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2015","5/14/2015","Maria Krysan","IL","University of Illinois at Chicago","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$9,492.00 ","Jonathan Stringfield","krysan@uic.edu","809 S MARSHFIELD","Chicago","IL","809 S MARSHFIELD, Chicago, IL","606124305","3129962862","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Over the past two decades, technological developments have made huge leaps in the speed, scale, and diversity of human communications. However, changes in human behavior occur at a much slower pace. In some cases, this has created a disconnection between how someone might think about communications media and the potential implications of utilizing those media. There is perhaps no better example of communication technologies that have created an array of misconceptions about usage than online social networking sites (SNS) such as Facebook and Twitter. The confusion surrounding potential or real risks to privacy, the intended audience receiving communication through these sites, and the extent to which ?online? relationships are bleeding into relationships ?offline? have created a perfect storm where individuals are confused about how to portray themselves on these sites. <br/><br/>The purpose of this study is to evaluate how conceptions of privacy and social media audiences affect portrayals of identity on social media platforms. In this study I will test a series of hypotheses related to conceptions of privacy, intended audience, and the potential overlap of offline/online contexts using survey data collected directly from two of the largest social networking sites, Facebook and Twitter. Paid advertisements will be used to disseminate links to the survey, giving all active users an opportunity to respond to the survey. This method avoids the shortcomings of existing studies of this topic, which tend to use convenience-sampling methods. The broader impact of this study lies in providing a better understanding of how individuals are navigating relationships between offline and online contexts. Further, this study can provide new insight to organizations such as Facebook and Twitter to motivate changes that would be beneficial to social media users.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Identity and Audience in Social Media",
"1535023","Assessing Evidence-Based Psychotherapy","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","8/1/2015","6/10/2016","Steven Epstein","IL","Northwestern University","Continuing grant","Frederick M Kronz","7/31/2017","$176,572.00 ","Mariana Craciun","s-epstein@northwestern.edu","1801 Maple Ave.","Evanston","IL","1801 Maple Ave., Evanston, IL","602013149","8474913003","SBE","7603","7174, 7567","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary<br/><br/>This postdoctoral fellowship will support a two-year study that investigates the rise of evidence-based, talk-therapeutic interventions. The study will include institutional and historical analyses of documents from training organizations, accreditation requirements, insurance reimbursement guidelines, and journal publications. These data will complement the author's extensive ethnographic observations and interviews with clinicians to facilitate the publication of articles and a monograph. The author will engage in a concerted effort to disseminate the study's findings to practitioners. Moreover, this project will include opportunities for training undergraduate students in research practices and developing their interests in science and technology studies and the sociology of medicine. Lastly, this study will result in a teaching module focused on contestations around ""evidence"" in the psychological sciences. The module will incorporate both analytical perspectives and primary materials, and will be freely available on the web.<br/><br/>Technical Summary<br/><br/>The study will make four contributions to existing scholarship. First, it will illuminate the processes by which novel conceptual tools and practices travel between domains of knowledge; specifically, it will provide an account of how notions of ""efficacy"" and ""evidence"" originally associated with pharmaceutical drug testing came to be the standards in talk therapeutic research. Second, this study will shed light on contestations within the human sciences by demonstrating that the construction of credible knowledge that can travel between the research trial and the clinic depends on the mediation of insurance companies. Third, it will contribute to current debates about the status of the medical profession by suggesting that standards can solidify rather than undermine experts' jurisdictional and authority claims. Fourth, it will fill an empirical gap in existing literature by tracing the development and rise to dominance of a set of approaches that has been largely overlooked, namely cognitive behavioral therapies. The overarching goal is to show how the science of talk challenges the standard interpretation of the ascendancy of cognitive behavior therapies. Another explanatory mechanism advanced in this study is economic viability; it is used to focus attention on the co-constitution of particular notions of ""good science"" and an economic regime that favors standardizable conceptions of mental illness. These results will be relevant to policy-makers, clinicians, and patients. They will also contribute to ongoing debates in the psychotherapy field regarding the empirical validation of psychoanalytic interventions and the continued relevance of such practices in clinical work.","crimson_atom","Assessing Evidence-Based Psychotherapy",
"1204685","Climate, Drought, and Agricultural Adaptations: An Investigation of Vulnerabilities and Responses to Water Stress Among Paddy Farmers in Sri Lanka","EAR","CR-Water Sustainability & Clim, SEES Fellows","9/1/2012","2/7/2014","George Hornberger","TN","Vanderbilt University","Standard Grant","Thomas Torgersen","8/31/2017","$3,722,560.00 ","Amanda Carrico, Lanka Thabrew, James Fraser, Jonathan Gilligan","g.hornberger@vanderbilt.edu","Sponsored Programs Administratio","Nashville","TN","Sponsored Programs Administratio, Nashville, TN","372350002","6153222631","GEO","7977, 8055","4444, 8012, 8060, 9150, OTHR","$0.00 ","Water scarcity is a growing concern in the U.S. and throughout the world, affecting an estimated one third of the population on every continent. The problem is particularly urgent in developing countries heavily reliant on agriculture, which can account for as much as 85-90% of fresh water usage. Effective water resource management has significant implications for food security, health, and worldwide political stability. This is increasingly important in the face of a growing population, dramatic shifts in land use, and changing climatic conditions. Historically, the world?s farmers have relied on traditional practices to manage water, but now find themselves challenged by new conditions that require adaptation to these farming practices. Understanding the complex array of factors?psychological, social, environmental, and political?that facilitate and constrain effective adaptation requires an integrated research agenda that transcends traditional disciplinary boundaries. This research draws upon the core disciplines of psychology, sociology, hydrology, and engineering in order to investigate these issues among paddy farmers within the Mahaweli River Watershed, Sri Lanka?a largely agricultural region that is a microcosm of the sort of massive changes occurring throughout the world in environmental, institutional, and social systems. These changes include impacts of drought as well as an ongoing national resettlement plan to populate and develop regions of the watershed. The research team will use a multi-level, multi-method approach that incorporates longitudinal farmer surveys, regional level drought indices (coupled with short- and long-term drought forecast methods), key informant interviews, and archival analysis. The research team will investigate how farmers adapt to changing water availability and how these decisions are affected by psychological, social, institutional, and environmental factors. The team will examine water availability and rice yields in light of farmers? adaptive actions, changing rainfall and temperature patterns, land use changes, and water allocation decisions. These multiple streams of data will be integrated using agent-based modeling to generate a rich set of future scenarios to characterize how changes to social and institutional circumstances and in the natural environment may affect farmers' adaptive actions and their effectiveness in managing vulnerability to water scarcity.<br/><br/> This project will not only advance our theoretical knowledge within and across disciplines; it will provide much needed practical information about sustainable water resource management to farmers and decision makers in a developing country where water scarcities have major implications for food security. A recent report from the U.S. National Intelligence Agency looking forward to the year 2040 concludes: ?Water problems will hinder the ability of key countries to produce food and generate energy, posing a risk to global food markets and hobbling economic growth.? This research is directed towards averting the worst of such consequences by furthering the knowledge of farmers, local community leaders, national governmental leaders, and researchers about strategies to reduce water stresses and facilitate adaptation. Additionally, the team has incorporated a major educational aspect in the project to train the next generation of scholars in a thoroughly interdisciplinary framework. As such, they will be mentored not only in theory and methodology but also in how to communicate research to diverse audiences, including policymakers and some of the world?s most vulnerable populations.","charcoal_battery","Climate, Drought, and Agricultural Adaptations: An Investigation of Vulnerabilities and Responses to Water Stress Among Paddy Farmers in Sri Lanka",
"1350061","CAREER: Using Analytics on Security Data to Understand Negative Innovations","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","6/1/2014","3/31/2016","Samuel Ransbotham","MA","Boston College","Continuing grant","Sol J. Greenspan","5/31/2019","$231,320.00 ","","ransboth@bc.edu","140 Commonwealth Avenue","Chestnut Hill","MA","140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA","24673800","6175528000","CSE","8060","1045, 7434","$0.00 ","The world increasingly relies on computer systems and associated software, yet attackers continue to exploit vulnerabilities in this software to threaten security in new and sophisticated ways. This research views exploitations of software vulnerabilities as critical, but not unique, examples of innovations that society would like to discourage? many other examples (e.g., biological weapons, sports doping, terrorist devices, privacy intrusions) exist. Purely technical panaceas are unlikely; instead, given inherent residual risk, society needs to better understand how adversaries adopt technological innovation and the efficacy of measures to stem their diffusion. Using large-scale data analysis, this research builds on innovation diffusion theory to model how exploitations of security vulnerabilities spread through attacker populations. The study of the specific software security context (particularly regarding disclosure and transparency) can clarify the complex interaction between attack and countermeasure activity and help society benefit from technology while reducing concomitant negative consequences.<br/><br/>The project integrates a cohesive set of empirical studies based on a massive dataset of intrusion alerts augmented by the National Vulnerability Database and manual data collection. It combines theory from economics, computer science, and sociology with advances in analytical tools to build predictive models. While researchers recognize that deeper understandings of attacks and countermeasures are critical, they remain difficult problems. However, recent advances in analytical techniques combined with the availability of large datasets present an emerging opportunity to model and understand attacker behavior. The project also promotes awareness of security through a range of activities (including instructional modules, workshops, and course offerings), using the theoretical insights from the research program to promote diffusion of measures that counter security threats. Regardless of how the threat landscape continues to evolve, rigorous methods for modeling attacker behavior and diffusing information will remain crucial.","lime_atom","CAREER: Using Analytics on Security Data to Understand Negative Innovations",
"1357622","Collaborative Research: Specification and Estimation of Exponential Family Random Graph Models for Weighted Networks","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, POLITICAL SCIENCE","4/15/2014","4/11/2014","Sreekalyani Bhamidi","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","3/31/2017","$202,667.00 ","Skyler Cranmer","bhamidi@email.unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","SBE","1333, 1371","","$0.00 ","Understanding the effect of network synergies on dynamic relational processes plays an important role in a number of real-world research settings. Examples include understanding what forms of monetary and social policy reduce the instance of international financial contagion, and the role of different physiological conditions on the activity levels of different interconnected regions in the human brain. Statistical insights into areas such as these require analytical methods which deal with both the presence and absence of ties as well as tie strengths between units in networks. This project focuses on the development and implementation of statistical methods and software for the analysis of weighted (i.e., tie strength) network data. The generalized exponential random graph model (GERGM) is a powerful tool for formulating and testing hypotheses about networks. The project will advance the current state of development of the GERGM by (1) developing a better understanding of the space of network probability distributions that can be formulated with the GERGM; developing Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods for estimation, which will broaden the class of GERGM specifications for which estimation is feasible; (3) developing special-case GERGM constraints that facilitate the study of correlation matrices as networks; and (4) developing asymptotic theory regarding the properties of the GERGM family. As part of this research, two illustrative applications of the GERGM will be developed. The first one involves the analysis of global environmental public policy networks, which offers insight into the network properties of global environmental faction and cooperation. The second application involves the analysis of neural activity networks in humans, which aims to understand complex dependencies connecting regions of the brain. <br/><br/>Given the recent explosion in the application of statistical network models in fields as diverse as sociology, genetics, neuroscience, political science, physics, finance, linguistics, and ecology, it is expected that the statistical methods developed in this project will be relevant to a number of different fields. One of the leading fields, in terms of the prominence of weighted network data, is neuroscience. One of the aims of this project is to contribute to the multi-agency initiative on Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies. This project offers two additional contributions that will facilitate the statistical study of weighted networks. First, this project will contribute and disseminate free and open-source statistical software that permits user-friendly applications. Second, the material developed in this project will be incorporated into graduate-level research methods coursework and workshops.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Specification and Estimation of Exponential Family Random Graph Models for Weighted Networks",
"1427125","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay: Integrating stakeholder objectives with natural system models to promote sustainable policy","OCE","SEES Coastal","1/1/2015","9/17/2015","Troy Hartley","VA","College of William & Mary Virginia Institute of Marine Science","Continuing grant","Michael Sieracki","12/31/2019","$458,207.00 ","","thartley@vims.edu","P.O. Box 1346","Gloucester Point","VA","P.O. Box 1346, Gloucester Point, VA","230621346","8046847000","GEO","8088","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","Researchers will use the oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay as a test case for collaborative policy development that is grounded in sound science. Environmental policies often create controversy and can be difficult to enforce, particularly when people do not understand the reason for the rules or do not consider the rules to be fair. Natural resources can be better sustained by policies developed cooperatively among all affected stakeholders, scientists, and government representatives. In a systematic approach, the project team will hold a series of workshops in which a full set of stakeholders will work with scientists to guide development of a model, select policy objectives, and apply the model to make policy recommendations. A collaborative modeling approach will ensure that stakeholders have an opportunity to incorporate their values, objectives, and knowledge into the model of the estuarine ecosystem which will include many benefits from the natural system such as commercial and recreational fishing, safe swimmable water, and other ecosystem services. Researchers will study the sociology and economics that influence stakeholder involvement and policy formation in order to better understand the human dimensions, improve the process, and enhance the implementation success of recommended policies. The lessons learned regarding the oyster ecosystem and fishery will advance the tools and practices of sustainable management of shellfisheries. The policy recommendations from the stakeholder workshops will be evaluated by state and federal agencies, and if implemented, would be an outcome that would directly enhance coastal sustainability. One Ph.D. student, two masters students, and one postdoctoral researcher will be trained in the science of coupled natural-human systems. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This research aims to improve the utility of predictive models for shaping natural resource policy and management. The research team will build an innovative natural systems model that integrates three-dimensional hydrodynamic, water quality and larval transport models with oyster demographics, human uses, and economics at a scale that is applicable to restoration and management. The modeling system developed will substantially advance methods for investigating, and understanding, natural systems with complex feedbacks between physical conditions, vital rates of organisms, and humans. Researchers will include stakeholder values, objectives, and knowledge in the model design process. Through a series of workshops, stakeholders will select the policy objectives and the integrated model will project how well policies are expected to meet these objectives. This iterative process will ensure that the natural system model will incorporate the complex human uses of the ecosystem. A targeted effort will be made to study the socioeconomic drivers of stakeholder involvement, information flow, use and influence, and the policy formation in order to improve the process and enhance the implementation success of recommended policies. By doing so, this research will advance understanding of the human dimensions needed to create sustainable policy as well as provide important new strategies for integrating natural and social sciences, and scientists, in sustainable resource management. This generalizable research component provides an important complement to the research on oysters, both of which will advance the tools and practices of sustainable management of shellfisheries.","charcoal_atom","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay: Integrating stakeholder objectives with natural system models to promote sustainable policy",
"1348865","EAGER: Prototyping an Urban Data Cyberinfrastructure for Computational Social Sciences","ACI","INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARC","10/1/2013","9/5/2013","Charles Catlett","IL","University of Chicago","Standard Grant","Robert Chadduck","9/30/2016","$299,998.00 ","","catlett@anl.gov","5801 South Ellis Avenue","Chicago","IL","5801 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, IL","606375418","7737028669","CSE","1640","7916, 1640","$0.00 ","Cities are the crucibles of civilization, and accelerating global urbanization raises challenges and opportunities related to density and scale in areas including transportation; food production and distribution; human health and wellbeing; education; social policy and services; and management of water and energy. Seeking to understand the human, social, and economic to help develop effective education or public policy scientists, and thus city officials, have traditionally been limited to qualitative studies or to using sparse, often stale data sources. The open data movement is making an increasingly rich set of urban data available, but the cyber infrastructure technologies and tools used to make this data available were designed primarily to support the analysis of individual data sets rather than exploring relationships among many data sets. Consequently, urban scientists from sociology, economics, behavioral sciences, education, engineering, operations research, and other disciplines lack the tools and infrastructure to fully harness urban data for their research. The questions these researchers ask are therefore constrained by the data they have in hand. Two new cyber infrastructure capabilities have potential to unleash these data sources, both exploiting the fact that most of the published urban data sets share the attributes of location and time. The first is to allow a scientist to assemble data from multiple, independent, data sources for a specific geographical location point (latitude/longitude), city unit (street segment, census tract, block), or area (polygon). The second is to select a window of time and to normalize the selected data sources using a common sampling interval, merging them into a composite structure for computational and statistical analysis. Taken together, these capabilities will allow a scientist to study urban areas, over specific time periods, with varied, relevant data represented as a time series of vectors. We propose to develop, in partnership with urban scientists and City officials initially from Chicago and eventually from New York City, a proof-of-concept with these capabilities.<br/><br/>The prototype will draw data from open data portals, allowing a researcher to specify a location, a window of time, a sampling period, and a list of data sets. The system will provide a matrix with one row per time sample and columns representing each data set. By merging and transforming urban data into matrices we will enable urban scientists to apply the tools of mathematics and computation to understand urban challenges ranging from youth violence and crime to graduate rates to employment and economic decline and revitalization.","lime_battery","EAGER: Prototyping an Urban Data Cyberinfrastructure for Computational Social Sciences",
"1427019","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay: Integrating stakeholder objectives with natural system models to promote sustainable policy","OCE","SEES Coastal","1/1/2015","9/15/2015","Elizabeth North","MD","University of Maryland Center for Environmental Sciences","Continuing grant","Michael Sieracki","12/31/2019","$1,405,033.00 ","Jeffrey Cornwell, Raleigh Hood, Lisa Wainger, Michael Wilberg","enorth@hpl.umces.edu","BOX 775","Cambridge","MD","BOX 775, Cambridge, MD","216130775","4102212014","GEO","8088","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","Researchers will use the oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay as a test case for collaborative policy development that is grounded in sound science. Environmental policies often create controversy and can be difficult to enforce, particularly when people do not understand the reason for the rules or do not consider the rules to be fair. Natural resources can be better sustained by policies developed cooperatively among all affected stakeholders, scientists, and government representatives. In a systematic approach, the project team will hold a series of workshops in which a full set of stakeholders will work with scientists to guide development of a model, select policy objectives, and apply the model to make policy recommendations. A collaborative modeling approach will ensure that stakeholders have an opportunity to incorporate their values, objectives, and knowledge into the model of the estuarine ecosystem which will include many benefits from the natural system such as commercial and recreational fishing, safe swimmable water, and other ecosystem services. Researchers will study the sociology and economics that influence stakeholder involvement and policy formation in order to better understand the human dimensions, improve the process, and enhance the implementation success of recommended policies. The lessons learned regarding the oyster ecosystem and fishery will advance the tools and practices of sustainable management of shellfisheries. The policy recommendations from the stakeholder workshops will be evaluated by state and federal agencies, and if implemented, would be an outcome that would directly enhance coastal sustainability. One Ph.D. student, two masters students, and one postdoctoral researcher will be trained in the science of coupled natural-human systems. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This research aims to improve the utility of predictive models for shaping natural resource policy and management. The research team will build an innovative natural systems model that integrates three-dimensional hydrodynamic, water quality and larval transport models with oyster demographics, human uses, and economics at a scale that is applicable to restoration and management. The modeling system developed will substantially advance methods for investigating, and understanding, natural systems with complex feedbacks between physical conditions, vital rates of organisms, and humans. Researchers will include stakeholder values, objectives, and knowledge in the model design process. Through a series of workshops, stakeholders will select the policy objectives and the integrated model will project how well policies are expected to meet these objectives. This iterative process will ensure that the natural system model will incorporate the complex human uses of the ecosystem. A targeted effort will be made to study the socioeconomic drivers of stakeholder involvement, information flow, use and influence, and the policy formation in order to improve the process and enhance the implementation success of recommended policies. By doing so, this research will advance understanding of the human dimensions needed to create sustainable policy as well as provide important new strategies for integrating natural and social sciences, and scientists, in sustainable resource management. This generalizable research component provides an important complement to the research on oysters, both of which will advance the tools and practices of sustainable management of shellfisheries.","charcoal_atom","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay: Integrating stakeholder objectives with natural system models to promote sustainable policy",
"1407751","Robust Estimation for Structured Covariance Models","DMS","STATISTICS","8/15/2014","5/20/2016","David Tyler","NJ","Rutgers University New Brunswick","Continuing grant","Gabor J. Szekely","7/31/2017","$119,999.00 ","","dtyler@rci.rutgers.edu","33 Knightsbridge Road","Piscataway","NJ","33 Knightsbridge Road, Piscataway, NJ","88543925","8489320150","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","The need to analyze multivariate data arises in many diverse disciplines, such as computer science and engineering, signal processing, psychology, meteorology, chemometrics, sociology, and biology. Due to the changing methods for collecting data, the number of variables or attributes measured in a single observation or for a single subject are becoming exceptionally large, and they can be considerably larger than the number of observations or subjects themselves. Such data sets are commonly referred to as large sparse data sets. For such data sets, the possibility of recording bad data points or outliers is increasingly likely. Outliers tend to have a disproportionate impact on the interpretation of the data unless one uses robust methods, that is, methods that can accommodate bad data. Developing methods to analyze large sparse data sets has become a major research topic within the field of statistics. There has been, however, relatively little attention given to the development of robust methods for large sparse data sets, which is the primary goal of this research project. The research project aims to produce fundamental results, theoretical approaches and statistical methods applicable to the robust analysis of large sparse data sets, upon which other researchers can build.<br/><br/>Most robust multivariate statistical methods are mainly applicable whenever the sample size is considerably larger than the number of variables, and are not particularly applicable to large sparse data sets. In particular, for sample sizes that are modest relative to the number of variables, robust affine equivariant estimates of multivariate location and scatter are similar in performance to the classical sample mean vector and sample covariance matrix, and consequently do not yield robust results for such data sets. Analyzing relatively sparse multivariate data tends to require either presuming certain covariance structures, such as those arising in graphical models, factor analysis or other reduced rank models, or developing methods which give preference to certain covariance structures via regularization methods. These special covariance structures are usually not considered in most robust multivariate methods. To address this shortcoming, the research project aims to develop robust methods which take into account a presumed covariance structure, and in particular to develop and study direct M-estimation methods and S-estimation methods for structured covariance models, as well as to develop and study penalized M-estimates of the covariance matrix. Addressing robustness issues for structured covariance models and for penalization methods are fundamental problems which is more mathematically and computationally challenging than in the classical setting or in the unrestricted robust estimation setting. Here, some recent work on geodesic convexity within the signal processing community is expected to play an important role in addressing these problems.","salmon_atom","Robust Estimation for Structured Covariance Models",
"1452961","CAREER: Algorithmic Foundations for Social Data","CCF","ALGORITHMIC FOUNDATIONS","5/1/2015","5/23/2016","Yaron Singer","MA","Harvard University","Continuing grant","Tracy J. Kimbrel","4/30/2020","$203,885.00 ","","yaron@seas.harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","CSE","7796","1045, 7926, 7932","$0.00 ","In the past several years, there has been a great deal of exposure to the opportunities and promise that lie in large-scale data. Although massive data sets have been collected and analyzed in well over a decade, the excitement is largely due to the relatively recent availability of social data: massive digital records of human interactions. This provides a unique system-wide perspective of collective human behavior which poses fundamental challenges and opportunities. Despite the tremendous progress made in recent years, very few algorithmic frameworks to-date have been purposefully developed for analyzing social data sets. �The goal of this project is to develop frameworks that enable analysis of large-scale social data.� This project seeks novel models that are rich in problems, raise deep questions about computation, and can lead to long-lasting impact on sociology and data science.<br/>��<br/>From a technical perspective, the goal of the project is to develop appropriate algorithmic machinery with strong theoretical guarantees that translate to results in practice.� The project consists of three main lines of research.� The first line of research seeks to develop a theory to optimize events in the future given a distribution on the consequences of actions we take in the present.� The second line of research considers learnability and scalability of social data, and its interpretation for optimization.� The third line of research considers design of robust optimization algorithms for noisy data.� The methodology includes experimentation on real data sets to develop appropriate algorithmic machinery with strong theoretical guarantees that translate to results in practice. Both undergraduate and graduate curriculum will benefit from the development of courses in this interdisciplinary area.","lime_atom","CAREER: Algorithmic Foundations for Social Data",
"1427012","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay: Integrating stakeholder objectives with natural system models to promote sustainable policy","OCE","SEES Coastal","1/1/2015","9/16/2015","Robert Jones","FL","Florida State University","Continuing grant","Michael Sieracki","12/31/2019","$135,000.00 ","Jeffrey Blair","rmjones@fsu.edu","874 Traditions Way, 3rd Floor","TALLAHASSEE","FL","874 Traditions Way, 3rd Floor, TALLAHASSEE, FL","323064166","8506445260","GEO","8088","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","Researchers will use the oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay as a test case for collaborative policy development that is grounded in sound science. Environmental policies often create controversy and can be difficult to enforce, particularly when people do not understand the reason for the rules or do not consider the rules to be fair. Natural resources can be better sustained by policies developed cooperatively among all affected stakeholders, scientists, and government representatives. In a systematic approach, the project team will hold a series of workshops in which a full set of stakeholders will work with scientists to guide development of a model, select policy objectives, and apply the model to make policy recommendations. A collaborative modeling approach will ensure that stakeholders have an opportunity to incorporate their values, objectives, and knowledge into the model of the estuarine ecosystem which will include many benefits from the natural system such as commercial and recreational fishing, safe swimmable water, and other ecosystem services. Researchers will study the sociology and economics that influence stakeholder involvement and policy formation in order to better understand the human dimensions, improve the process, and enhance the implementation success of recommended policies. The lessons learned regarding the oyster ecosystem and fishery will advance the tools and practices of sustainable management of shellfisheries. The policy recommendations from the stakeholder workshops will be evaluated by state and federal agencies, and if implemented, would be an outcome that would directly enhance coastal sustainability. One Ph.D. student, two masters students, and one postdoctoral researcher will be trained in the science of coupled natural-human systems. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This research aims to improve the utility of predictive models for shaping natural resource policy and management. The research team will build an innovative natural systems model that integrates three-dimensional hydrodynamic, water quality and larval transport models with oyster demographics, human uses, and economics at a scale that is applicable to restoration and management. The modeling system developed will substantially advance methods for investigating, and understanding, natural systems with complex feedbacks between physical conditions, vital rates of organisms, and humans. Researchers will include stakeholder values, objectives, and knowledge in the model design process. Through a series of workshops, stakeholders will select the policy objectives and the integrated model will project how well policies are expected to meet these objectives. This iterative process will ensure that the natural system model will incorporate the complex human uses of the ecosystem. A targeted effort will be made to study the socioeconomic drivers of stakeholder involvement, information flow, use and influence, and the policy formation in order to improve the process and enhance the implementation success of recommended policies. By doing so, this research will advance understanding of the human dimensions needed to create sustainable policy as well as provide important new strategies for integrating natural and social sciences, and scientists, in sustainable resource management. This generalizable research component provides an important complement to the research on oysters, both of which will advance the tools and practices of sustainable management of shellfisheries.","charcoal_atom","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake Bay: Integrating stakeholder objectives with natural system models to promote sustainable policy",
"1456634","SG: Development of Improved Methods of Biogeography and Ancestry Identification","DEB","EVOLUTIONARY GENETICS, Biological Anthropology","6/1/2015","6/4/2015","Tatiana Tatarinova","CA","Children's Hospital Los Angeles","Standard Grant","Leslie Rissler","5/31/2017","$149,994.00 ","Eran Elhaik","ttatarinova@chla.usc.edu","The Saban Research Institute","Los Angeles","CA","The Saban Research Institute, Los Angeles, CA","900276062","3233615828","BIO","7378, 1392","9169, EGCH, 8819, 1392","$0.00 ","The ability to identify the geographic origin of an individual using genomic data poses a great challenge due to its complexity and potential misinterpretations. Knowledge of this origin and recent ancestry are essential for research in multiple fields such as anthropology, sociology, forensics, personalized medicine and epidemiology, in which ancestry is an important variable. It also requires understanding that all species, including humans, are mixed to certain degrees and that these mixture patterns can unlock the history and origin of their ancestors. As the proportion of mixed-ancestry individuals increases worldwide, there is a need to better infer their biogeography. Current methods are less than 50% accurate for European populations and highly inaccurate for non-Europeans. This project aims to address this shortage and to develop novel, accurate and efficient tools to study individuals of mixed origin. They will have vast implications for practitioners trying to match cases and controls in disease studies, geneticists studying biodiversity and origins of humans, animals, and plants, as well as many people seeking answers about their past. This work will also contribute to advancement in agricultural genomics by providing selection tools for plant and animal breeders.<br/><br/><br/>Recently published first-generation Geographic Population Structure (GPS1) algorithm, developed by the PIs, provided biogeographical predictions that placed 83% of worldwide non-admixed individuals in their correct country of origin. This proposal builds on the success of the GPS1 algorithm to develop new tools for predicting biogeography in mixed individuals. The current aims are: (1) Development of the next phase of GPS algorithms, which will be capable of predicting the countries of origin of an individual's parents, grandparents or a more complex mixture with high accuracy; (2) Development of a tool to infer local ancestry along the genome; (3) Development of a GPS pipeline to infer the biogeographic origin of plants and animals. Modern computational approaches, such as genetic algorithms, simulated annealing, and others will be used to achieve optimal accuracy and computational efficiency. All algorithms will be implemented in the platform-independent languages R and Matlab and use the mpiR R package and parallel computing toolbox, respectively, to enable parallel processing. This project is supported by the Evolutionary Processes and Biological Anthropology programs at NSF.","azure_battery","SG: Development of Improved Methods of Biogeography and Ancestry Identification",
"1411866","Long-term Effects of Small Perturbations and Other Multiscale Asymptotic Problems","DMS","APPLIED MATHEMATICS","8/15/2014","8/19/2014","Mark Freidlin","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Lora Billings","7/31/2017","$210,000.00 ","","mif@math.umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","MPS","1266","","$0.00 ","Long term effects of small perturbations, both deterministic and stochastic are of great interest in real life and for various intellectual enterprises from history, sociology, and economics to biology, physics, and engineering. When one wants to understand the time evolution of a complex system, a simplified model of the system, that can be analyzed, is usually a way forward. In this case one chooses a relatively small number of main 'factors' or variables which are guiding the evolution of the system while neglecting other factors that are relatively insignificant. On a short time interval, these small factors are not essential. However, on long time scales, the factors, which were considered as negligible, can become important and even critical for determining the system's behavior. The investigator and his colleagues are developing new models and methods for studying such problems. 'Problem' examples include climate change, biological evolution, and phase transitions in physical or economic systems as well as the appearance of 'stable' oscillations, equilibriums, and other patterns caused by small perturbations.<br/><br/>The investigator and his colleagues study deterministic and stochastic perturbations of various dynamical systems as well as semi-flows corresponding to the evolution of PDEs. A general approach to, at first glance, different problems is suggested. Metastability and stochastic resonance, which are manifestation of the large deviation theory, as well as the averaging principle and its modifications can be considered from this point of view. This general approach is based on the study of limiting slow evolution as a motion on the cone of invariant measures of the non-perturbed system. The approach underlines the importance of joint consideration of deterministic and stochastic perturbations. Perturbations of the generalized Landau-Lifshitz equation for multiple spins, incompressible flows in 3D having a conservation law, reaction-advection-diffusion equations in narrow channels arising in models of molecular motors can be studied using this approach. Various boundary problems for second order elliptic equations with a small parameter can be considered as well. Finally, the PI will also study the small mass asymptotics for the Langevin equation.","salmon_battery","Long-term Effects of Small Perturbations and Other Multiscale Asymptotic Problems",
"1602672","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Mass Shootings and the Gun Control and Gun Rights Movements","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2016","3/14/2016","David Meyer","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$11,447.00 ","Eulalie Laschever","dmeyer@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Mass Shootings and the Gun Control and Gun Rights Movements<br/>PI: David S. Meyer<br/>Co-PI: Eulalie Laschever<br/><br/>This study examines how the gun control and gun rights movements responded to the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14, 2012, and the policy impact of their efforts. The research will also attempt to explain why 29 states relaxed firearms restrictions, while 16 states tightened restrictions in the two years that followed the shooting. This study employs two methods of analysis. First, to determine how the gun control and gun rights movements responded to the event, the Co-PI compares two different cases to assess how and if two major national gun control organizations and two major national gun rights organizations changed their policy agendas, targets,tactics, and organizational structures between 2011 and 2014. Second, the co-PI uses qualitative comparative analysis to show why some states strengthened firearms restrictions while others relaxed restrictions during the 2011-2012 and the 2013-2014 legislative sessions. The findings of this study will be useful to scholars who study social movements, public health, state-level policy change, and professional political organizations. In addition, this study will contribute to public knowledge and discourse about social movements in America.<br/><br/>This dissertation contributes to the academic literatures on social movement strategy and on policy outcomes by explaining how movement organizations respond to critical events and why laws sometimes change during the political debate that follows them. There is agreement in the literature that critical events are important for social movements. Little is known, however, about how opposing movement organizations change in response to such events, or how these responses are mediated by other features of the political context and by each organization?s own internal constraints. Similarly, scholars have established that critical events can shake up the political agenda and facilitate policy change. But we still know little about the conditions that facilitate policy change after such events, or whether these conditions are distinct from those that fostered similar policy changes before the event occurred. The Co-PI will conduct intensive case studies of two important gun control organizations and two important gun rights organizations about their organizational structures, targets, tactics, and political agendas between 2011 and 2014. To answer the second question, she will conduct fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) to determine what factors led to changes in state-level firearms restrictions in the legislative sessions before and after the shooting. The researcher will compare the conditions that led to four different state-level policy outcomes. This dissertation has two objectives: 1) to detail how political organizations respond to critical events; and 2) to determine the conditions under which state laws change after such events. The findings of this study will be useful to scholars who study social movements, public health, state-level policy change, and professional political organizations. This study will also contribute to public knowledge and discourse in America.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Mass Shootings and the Gun Control and Gun Rights Movements",
"1602568","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Effect of the Loss of Stable Career-Paths on the Professional Middle Class","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/27/2016","John Evans","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$11,998.00 ","Lindsay Depalma","jhevans@ucsd.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602568<br/>John Evans<br/>Lindsay J. Depalma<br/>University of California, San Diego<br/><br/>Over the last few decades, major structural changes have resulted in the replacement of stable career-paths with part-time or contractual labor and the general fragmentation of professional career paths. This market economy demands flexible workers and creates work that is uncertain and unpredictable. These changes, characterized by the relationship between employer and employee transitioning from relational to transactional, is generating an unprecedented form of precarious work in the professional middle class. This project analyzes how professionals negotiate contradictions between cultural narratives about lovable work, success, and agency, and unprecedented levels of precarious work. <br/><br/>The research conceptualizes two broad experiences of professional work, one in the market economy and one in the organizations economy. Work within the market economy is characterized by instability, risk, flexibility, and precariousness, while work within the organizations economy is characterized by stability, low risk, rigidity, and security. This project compares professionals who experience work as precarious to those who do not, holding occupation constant by analyzing three occupations that have positions in both the market and the organizations economy? engineers, designers, and nurses. In total, the investigators will interview 72 professionals. These data are needed in order to understand the new problems professional workers face, and to develop cultural and institutional solutions. This research will contribute insights that will help to build a new social contract that grants employers the flexibility that the market demands and employees the securities and cultural coherence that they need to thrive in a market economy.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Effect of the Loss of Stable Career-Paths on the Professional Middle Class",
"1602784","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Role of Social Entrepreneurship in Addressing Poverty.","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","5/3/2016","Brayden King","IL","Northwestern University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$12,000.00 ","Nevena Radoynovska","b-king@kellogg.northwestern.edu","1801 Maple Ave.","Evanston","IL","1801 Maple Ave., Evanston, IL","602013149","8474913003","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602784<br/>Brayden King<br/>Nevena Radoynovska<br/>Northwestern University<br/><br/>Social entrepreneurship - broadly understood as the use of market principles to address social needs - has raised high expectations for curbing global poverty and social exclusion. Yet, despite impressive growth in attention to social entrepreneurship, surprisingly little is known about when, how and why it succeeds or fails in addressing social problems. Beyond theoretical contributions of interest to scholars, the project has potential implications for the expanding regional, national and supranational institutions that have turned to social entrepreneurship in the face of scarce public funding and growing socio-economic inequalities. Study findings could possibly offer valuable insights for tailoring social entrepreneurship policies to local needs, opportunities, and power structures, as well as for identifying when alternative (or additional) actors and initiatives might be leveraged to address poverty and social exclusion.<br/><br/>This dissertation uses mixed methods to investigate the factors and mechanisms that help and/or hinder social entrepreneurship in addressing poverty and social exclusion. The empirical context is social entrepreneurship in Paris and its surrounding 'banlieues' - communities marked by disproportionate levels of poverty, unemployment and additional forms of exclusion. Part I uses national-level quantitative data (an original dataset of 1033 French social enterprises selected on the basis of organizational form and entrepreneurial profile) to investigate the conditions under which social entrepreneurs/enterprises succeed or fail in terms of their economic survival and social mission(s). Using event history analysis (2002-2015), the project analyzes the founding and survival rates of social enterprises based on their geographic location, sector of activity, founder and community characteristics, and commercial and social organizational missions. Part II relies on semi-structured interviews to investigate how different actors construct the meaning of success, failure and impact in social entrepreneurship, and the mechanisms that limit SE's ability to reduce social exclusion in communities. Interviews are conducted with three groups of actors in the Ile-de-France region of France: (1) founders/current directors of social enterprises, (2) strategic directors of organizations providing support (e.g., financial, training, mentorship, networking) to social entrepreneurs and enterprises, and (3) ""unsuccessful"" social entrepreneurs who had an entrepreneurial idea but did not ultimately found an organization and/or whose social enterprise was dissolved within a year of establishment. Interviews are transcribed and translated from French, analyzed first inductively, then systematically using qualitative coding software (Atlas.ti). The quantitative dataset, findings, codebook, and aggregate summary data from Atlas.ti will be made available to the public, while executive summaries will be provided to each participating organization/individual as well as interested policy-makers and public institutions.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The Role of Social Entrepreneurship in Addressing Poverty.",
"1602813","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Exposure to Environmental Hazards: Analyzing the Location and Distribution of Landfills in the Contiguous United States","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/25/2016","Kevin Gotham","LA","Tulane University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$11,999.00 ","Clare Cannon","kgotham@tulane.edu","6823 ST CHARLES AVENUE","NEW ORLEANS","LA","6823 ST CHARLES AVENUE, NEW ORLEANS, LA","701185698","5048654000","SBE","1331","1331, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602813<br/>Kevin Gotham<br/>Clare Cannon<br/>Tulane University<br/><br/>This research examines who is impacted in the contiguous United States by environmental hazards in the form of landfills (all types?construction and demolition, industrial, and municipal) and in what ways are people exposed to such socio-environmental inequalities. Much research has shown that people, based on their social location, differentially experience exposure to environmental hazards. This research seeks to add to our understanding of who is affected, to what extent, and why some people may experience greater exposure to environmental harms than others. Furthermore, this research implements an intersectionality approach in the investigation of who is affected by environmental harms. <br/><br/>To answer these questions, this research will test for and identify the socioeconomic, ethnic/racial, and gender-based determinants of the spatial location and distribution of landfills in the United States. For this research project, the co-PI will create a novel dataset of all types of landfills (e.g., construction and demolition (C&D), industrial, municipal, disaster-generated) at the county level across the contiguous United States in conjunction with data from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Census Bureau to answer research questions. These data will be used to test several hypotheses concerning whether the socioeconomic status, racial/ethnic status, or gender status of a community is a major predictor in the level of exposure to landfills. The data will be analyzed using GIS mapping, OLS regression, and structural equation modeling to obtain a predictive model for the spatial location and distribution of landfills. Theoretically derived hypotheses will be tested by combining quantitative data and statistical analyses on the location of landfills with qualitative interviews of andomly selected households (N = 30-40 respondents) living near five randomly selected landfills. Interview data will provide novel insights on how residents living near landfills assess environmental risk, how they view landfills as hazards, and the decision-making processes underlying their views of environmental degradation and inequality. Empirically, we seek to identify the factors that predict landfill location and distribution across the U.S., an important issue given that landfill distribution may reflect and reinforce differential access to privileges, resources, risks, and vulnerabilities. Theoretically, we aim to understand whether and how environmental inequality and risk are influenced by racial minority status, poverty and socioeconomic status, or gender status.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Exposure to Environmental Hazards: Analyzing the Location and Distribution of Landfills in the Contiguous United States",
"1602248","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Public Beliefs and Responses to Industrial Sites","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/15/2016","3/14/2016","Michael Macy","NY","Cornell University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2017","$11,062.00 ","Fedor Dokshin","mwm14@cornell.edu","373 Pine Tree Road","Ithaca","NY","373 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY","148502820","6072555014","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","Public responses to industrial projects shape the distribution of health and environmental risks within society. They also influence the social acceptance, government regulation, and economic viability of new technologies and industries. This dissertation uses the context of the unfolding boom in gas and oil production enabled by hydraulic fracturing technology to investigate how alternative conceptions of the risks and benefits of industrial projects structure the mobilization of public opposition and support. First, the research distinguishes between NIMBY (""Not in my backyard"") opponents who mobilize on the basis of perceived local impacts, and ideological opponents who react to the industry from a larger set of political beliefs and values. Second, the researchers examine support for industrial siting that has received little attention in existing scholarship. The project introduces public comments as a new source of data for measuring public opinion. The project has potentially important implications for understanding political dynamics behind decisions to site and expand a rapidly-growing industry. The methods used for this study should be broadly applicable to other areas of study that can benefit from ""big data.""<br/><br/>Current energy development in the United States brings renewed social science to explain public reactions to industrial siting. This research tests ""NIMBY"" (not in my backyard) against a complementary explanation of public response to industrial siting based on residents' ideological commitments to help to reconcile inconsistent empirical findings about the relationship between proximity and opposition. The project will examine 91,000 public comments submitted during the regulatory reviews of hydraulic fracturing in two states, Illinois and New York. First, researchers will generate a comprehensive mapping of the relationship between geographic proximity and mobilization for and against proposed hydraulic fracturing projects. Second, the researchers will combine the comments with measures of community context and with individual-level measures of ideology to evaluate competing explanations of mobilization for, and against, industrial siting in a series of statistical analyses. Finally, as a direct test of the proposed theoretical mechanism, the researchers will use natural language processing techniques to code the body of comments for the different ways that commenters talk about hydraulic fracturing. For research on industrial siting, public comments data offer three specific advantages: (1) they offer a behavioral measure of opposition and support of an industry (2) they are geocoded, allowing for precise measurement of a commenter?s proximity to proposed industrial sites, and (3) the text of public comments gives unprecedented insight into the different conceptions that people develop of industry impacts. The results of the analysis, especially the relative effects of proximity and political ideology, may have implications for understanding the dynamics of other policy debates. Finally, the proposed project will demonstrate innovative approaches based on natural language techniques and machine learning concepts to studying these dynamics using existing public records, as well as the use of rigorous multiple methods.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Public Beliefs and Responses to Industrial Sites",
"1452475","CAREER: Structured Indoor Modeling","IIS","ROBUST INTELLIGENCE, EXP PROG TO STIM COMP RES","2/1/2015","4/6/2015","Yasutaka Furukawa","MO","Washington University","Continuing grant","Jie Yang","1/31/2020","$307,343.00 ","","furukawa@wustl.edu","CAMPUS BOX 1054","SAINT LOUIS","MO","CAMPUS BOX 1054, SAINT LOUIS, MO","631304899","3147474134","CSE","7495, 9150","1045, 7495, 9150, 9251","$0.00 ","Many objects around us are associated with certain functions. We use a switch to turn on a light, push a button to call an elevator, and open a door to enter a room. While 3D digital mapping is getting increasingly more attentions due to the rapid advancements in the 3D reconstruction techniques and the 3D sensing hardware, current methods are merely optimized for geometric fidelity and lack such functional information. This project discovers rules governing indoor scenes from a database of indoor 3D models, and then develops an algorithm to reconstruct functional indoor 3D models. High fidelity 3D models, if equipped with functional information, would facilitate fundamentally new applications that influence our lives at a much deeper level. The developed technologies have many different applications, from helping indoor navigation to assessing compliance with building codes, accessibility codes, and energy efficiency levels. The broader impacts of the project include architecture, civil engineering, urban geography and sociology, real estate, and transportation. The research of this project is well integrated with the education. The education plan includes an interdisciplinary course with Sam Fox School of Design & Visual Arts at Washington University, and co-developing a K-12 teaching module with a local high school teacher, which is estimated to impact 2,500 high school students.<br/><br/>The central idea of this research is to discover structural elements constituting an indoor scene, together with their hierarchical and functional relationships. For example, a building consists of stories, each of which contains rooms, each of which contains windows. Doors connect rooms, and an elevator door is a passage connecting different floors. First, the project defines a novel structured scene representation together with its rigorous structure grammar. Second, the project derives a principled new structured reconstruction algorithm that follows the rules in the structure grammar. Third, the structured model representation and reconstruction algorithm open up new opportunities to enable a highly tunable reconstruction system. This project develops a system that is capable of enforcing richer classes of geometric constraints far beyond existing methods, and controlling the properties of an output model effectively to meet the demands of specific applications directly. The developed technologies can be transformed to other geometry reconstruction and shape extraction problems, such as 2D shape segmentation, 3D outdoor architectural modeling, and 4D dynamic scene reconstruction.","lime_atom","CAREER: Structured Indoor Modeling",
"1602495","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Cultural Contestations and Genetically Modified Crops In a Non-Western Context","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","5/3/2016","Jill Harrison","CO","University of Colorado at Boulder","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$9,481.00 ","Jessie Luna","jill.harrison@colorado.edu","3100 Marine Street, Room 481","Boulder","CO","3100 Marine Street, Room 481, Boulder, CO","803031058","3034926221","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES- 1602495<br/>Jill Harrison<br/>Jessie K. Luna<br/>University of Colorado at Boulder<br/><br/>This dissertation research will add to our understanding of the polarized debates over the role of genetically engineered crops in development. This project seeks to understand the social and cultural dimensions of peoples' practices and understandings of genetically engineered crops. In doing so, it will shed light on the reasons why some actors have embraced or benefited from biotech crops, whereas others have not, and why there are differences in how things play out ""on the ground"" as opposed to ""in theory."" The study examines the role of social and cultural practices in the adoption (and sometimes rejection) of genetically engineered cotton in the West African country of Burkina Faso, one of the only African countries currently growing genetically engineered crop. Research findings will help contribute to regional policy regarding agricultural development.<br/><br/>This research builds on academic literatures that studies the privatization of nature - including seeds. It asks how the logics associated with genetically modified seeds intersect with non-Western and non-neoliberal logics. Using tools from Science and Technology Studies, the research will ask how the logics of neoliberal nature ""travel"" and encounter cultural friction and transformation. The co-PI will collect qualitative data from interviews and participant observation with researchers, civil society actors, cotton extension agents, cotton farmers of different class positions, and rural women. The research will use iterative and comparative analysis to identify zones of transformation, conflict, or resistance. The researcher will examine cultural narratives and identity claims, as well as peoples' changing interactions with ecological landscapes. These findings will ultimately shed light on how processes of capitalist expansion both shape and are shaped by non-economic and non-Western logics.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Cultural Contestations and Genetically Modified Crops In a Non-Western Context",
"1623835","I-Corps: Human Behavioral Models for Camera Placement and Video Analytics","IIP","I-Corps","1/15/2016","1/14/2016","Shishir Shah","TX","University of Houston","Standard Grant","Steven Konsek","6/30/2017","$50,000.00 ","","sshah@central.uh.edu","4800 Calhoun Boulevard","Houston","TX","4800 Calhoun Boulevard, Houston, TX","772042015","7137435773","ENG","8023","","$0.00 ","Physical spaces are compartmentalized to form infrastructures, buildings, and facilities that serve various purposes for humans. For example, in the design of a public facility, corridors or passageways are created to facilitate the flow of humans from one end to another. Similarly, in deploying a video camera network, the cameras are placed to capture human activities and obtain identifiable information. However, a very limited amount of observed human behavioral information is taken into consideration while designing the infrastructure of the placement of cameras, respectively, in the above examples. Factors like sustainability, costs, aesthetics, etc. tend to take precedence. This I-Corps team believes that human behavior understanding holds equal importance as other factors in designing a facility or in designing the placement of cameras in a camera network. The team has developed an approach that predicts expected human motion behavior in any infrastructure, which in turn is leveraged to inform the placement of cameras to form a video camera network. This solution optimizes the ability to capture analyzable human data while ensuring traditional wisdom used in current deployments that include the ability to monitor fixed assets, entry/exit ways, and open spaces. the proposed solution delivers a cost-effective design for camera placements to form a video camera network that generates actionable data and hence maximizes the value and return-on-investment (ROI) of the deployed system.<br/><br/>The proposed technology core comprises of methods and models for human motion behavior. It includes a computational model of human motion behavior within an infrastructure based on its known geometry, and a computational model to simulate human motion in a known geometry. The underlying methods leverage concepts of human behavior from the fields of psychology and sociology, and employs computer science optimization techniques to predict human behavior. This team believes that the proposed methods can fulfill or alleviate current industry needs related to effective surveillance at reduced costs to realize actionable data. In realizing the above, the team will identify existing video surveillance system providers, designers, and integrators; will perform customer interviews and validate their needs and identify functional features that could be developed in a minimal viable product (MVP). The team will also identify the development resources and facilities necessary to develop the prototype MVP and, if possible, work towards integrating developed methods into a prototype product following agile development methods.","golden_battery","I-Corps: Human Behavioral Models for Camera Placement and Video Analytics",
"1603041","Doctoral Dissertation Resaerch: The Legal Incorporation of Private Regulation: Transforming Ratings in Finance and Healthcare","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","5/3/2016","Elizabeth Gorman","VA","University of Virginia Main Campus","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$9,739.00 ","Joris Gjata","eg5n@virginia.edu","P.O. BOX 400195","CHARLOTTESVILLE","VA","P.O. BOX 400195, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA","229044195","4349244270","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES- 1603041<br/>Elizabeth Gorman <br/>Joris Gjata<br/>University of Virginia<br/><br/>Ratings have become a symbol of the power of information to regulate lives. They are condensed ways of presenting information about people, organizations, or their products and activities. They take different forms and come from different sources. However, only some of these ratings have gained tremendous regulatory power over the lives of individuals and organizations as they evaluate compliance with certain standards of behavior. Most scholars and analysts regard ratings? regulatory power an inevitable, natural and functional response to conditions of increasing market expansion and uncertainty. This project examines the evolution of ratings and their sources for two large sectors - finance and healthcare - in the United States. In both fields ratings with regulatory power come from a few specialized private agencies. The recognition by law of those few specialized private agencies - credit rating and hospital accrediting agencies respectively - as legitimate sources of information to evaluate organizations? worth, is a key moment in the history of ratings for both fields. How and why were specific private agencies recognized as legitimate sources of ratings instead of alternative governmental or professional forms of regulation? How did ratings gain their regulatory power over healthcare and financial organizations? What was the role of the state and law in the emergence of ratings as a new institution? How did their meaning change over time? The answers to these questions will highlight institutional configurations without neglecting the agents that make possible their maintenance, change and stability. They also contribute to the demystification of new regulatory forms as inevitable, natural and functional outcomes necessitated by conditions of uncertainty and increasing market expansion. The comparison of two different fields helps reveal the interdependences of different fields and the crucial role policy makers play in shaping new forms of regulation: legitimizing them, contributing to their implementation, and mediating their power to shape social life. <br/><br/>This project will combine data on congressional records and hearings about the formal recognition in federal legislation of certain specialized private agencies as legitimate sources of ratings, organizational histories and accounts, examinations of field specific publications, and newspaper data to trace the processes through which regulation-by-information emerged as a new institutional form in two major fields of activity in the US. It uses theories of institutional emergence to examine the political and cultural struggles surrounding the emergence of ratings by certain specialized private agencies as regulation-by-information and the sidelining of alternative sources of ratings like associations or government agencies. The project aims to clarify the meaning of ratings, the conditions under which they constitute ?regulation-by-information,? and present a more coherent framework for examining other emerging forms of regulation.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Resaerch: The Legal Incorporation of Private Regulation: Transforming Ratings in Finance and Healthcare",
"1602221","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Investigating the Shift in CEO Hires in the United States","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/15/2016","5/24/2016","Neil Fligstein","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$11,982.00 ","Matthew Stimpson","fligst@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1602221<br/>Neil Fligstein<br/>Matthew Stimpson<br/>University of California-Berkeley<br/><br/><br/>Much of the sharp increase in income inequality over the past forty years in the United States is due to surging pay for business executives. This dissertation will contribute to public debate about appropriate pay levels for CEOs by putting the rising demand for ""superstar"" CEOs into historical context. The research investigates an understudied mechanism contributing to rising executive compensation: the rise in outside CEO hires at large U.S. firms since the middle of the 20th century. The percentage of new CEOs hired from outside the company (rather than promoted from within) more than doubled from 1970 to 2005, and evidence suggests that this upward trend is even starker if the entire post-WWII period is considered. CEOs hired from outside the company tend to have higher compensation than those promoted from within, and hence this rise in outside hires is linked to surging executive pay. To help explain this shift towards outside CEO hires, this dissertation will (1) better document when and in which industries outside CEO hires first became common and (2) investigate how evaluations of these outside hires by the business community have changed since the middle of the 20th century. <br/><br/>Many explanations of the steep rise in executive compensation since the 1970s rely on the existence of an external market for CEOs. This external CEO market has expanded dramatically over the past half-century, and this dissertation will investigate the shift towards outside CEO hires among publicly traded firms in the United States. Prior accounts of the emergence of an external CEO market treat outside CEO hires as a stable phenomenon rather than a practice whose meaning has changed and whose acceptance needs to be explained. Many explanations highlight the economic changes that arose in the 1980s, but the pre-1980s period is rarely studied as a comparison case. The research design of this dissertation will address these shortcomings to provide a more compelling account of the shift towards outside CEO hires. The study will (1) construct a data set of CEO successions at 500 large, publicly traded U.S. firms from 1950 to 2015 and (2) use content analysis of newspaper articles and analyst reports to inspect how evaluations of outside CEO hires have changed over time. In addition to clarifying explanations of rising CEO pay, this research will help explain how a value for general management skills became institutionalized in practice, granting those seen to possess these skills with the flexibility to reap greater rewards in the labor market.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Investigating the Shift in CEO Hires in the United States",
"1152538","A Research Coordination Network Dedicated to Facilitating the Creation and Transfer of Knowledge","ACI","VIRTUAL ORGANIZATIONS, Science of Organizations","1/1/2012","12/12/2011","Ray Reagans","MA","Massachusetts Institute of Technology","Standard Grant","Rajiv Ramnath","12/31/2016","$500,000.00 ","Fiona Murray, Lori Rosenkopf","rreagans@mit.edu","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21394301","6172531000","CSE","7642, 8031","1664, 7642","$0.00 ","This project will create a research coordination network to develop lasting collaborations among scholars from a variety of disciplines (e.g., economics, management, and sociology) who study the creation and transfer of knowledge and the implications of these processes for individual and organizational outcomes. While a significant amount of research has been done in the area, the broad field of inquiry is fragmented into multiple distinct groups, with some researchers adopting an ""organization-focus"" and considering knowledge creation and transfer within and across organizations, while others have adopted an ""individual-focus"" emphasizing the life scientists and a third group has adopted a ""group-focus"" investigating knowledge transfer among interacting teams. Through the formation of network clusters focused around four common themes and a series of workshops and conferences, this research coordination network will help bridge the boundary or disconnect between these multiple ""invisible colleges"" and make researchers more aware of theoretical arguments and research findings developing outside of their school. The research coordination network would encourage boundary-spanning interactions that are likely to result in novel research projects and initiatives that will enable development of a more complete view of the interplay between institutional factors such as intellectual property rights and individual factors such as motivations and incentives that affect the creation of scientific knowledge, its diffusion and potential commercialization and use. <br/><br/>Understanding the creation and transfer of knowledge is of great importance both to the scientific community and to nurturing a national innovation ecosystem that will enhance national competitiveness and security. Scholarly research is currently fragmented so could benefit greatly from integration and an integrated view can guide both national policy and organizational practice and the ability to create and transfer knowledge is a distinct source of competitive advantage. Indeed, as the half-life of products and even entire product categories has decreased, the ability to create and transfer knowledge has become even more important because both factors shape a firm's ability to improve existing products and work routines and to develop new products and work routines. Research coordinated by the network would improve our ability to manage the production and distribution of knowledge within and between organizations. Scientists and women in particular, must overcome a significant number of barriers as they attempt to commercialize their ideas. Research that combines organizational and individual factors could shed light on how best to overcome those barriers in particular and to knowledge creation and transfer in general. New projects encouraged by the network could prove particularly valuable for life scientists and the large number of people who benefit from their ideas and innovations.","lime_battery","A Research Coordination Network Dedicated to Facilitating the Creation and Transfer of Knowledge",
"1137353","Collaborative Research: Building Analytical, Synthesis, and Human Network Skills Needed for Macrosystem Science: a Next Generation Graduate Student Training Model Based on GLEON","EF","MACROSYSTEM BIOLOGY","2/1/2012","6/27/2012","Paul Hanson","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Elizabeth R. Blood","1/31/2017","$843,246.00 ","","pchanson@wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","BIO","7959","7959","$0.00 ","Collaborative Research: Building analytical, synthesis, and human network skills needed for<br/>macrosystem science: a next generation graduate student training model based on GLEON<br/><br/>Ecology is on the cusp of new continental-scale science. Enabled by emerging science networks, there is now a tremendous promise for understanding the effects and consequences of global environmental change on ecological systems across regions and among continents. Data from environmental sensor networks, as well as ever-growing, publically available data from research and monitoring programs around the world will underpin this understanding. However, scientific advances require people who can make creative use of technology and data, and who can work together to promote transdisciplinary understanding. Tackling large scale science will require a generation of scientists trained to work in teams to effectively use/create the cyber infrastructure necessary to deliver relevant data, to explore, analyze and synthesize those data using a variety of techniques and tools, and to communicate their findings to the scientific community and the public.<br/><br/>The creation of a Global Lake Ecological Observatory Network (GLEON) Graduate Student Fellows Program (GGSFP) is proposed to build the essential skills necessary for a new generation of scientists to quickly assume productive roles in macrosystem syntheses, and network science organizations. GLEON is an international, grassroots network of scientists, information technology experts, and engineers who have a common goal of building a scalable, persistent network of lake ecology observatories (www.gleon.org). GLEON has over 300 members (95 students) from 34 countries and has multiple data repositories, including near-continuous high frequency data from lakes. This work will combine the extensive resources and experience of GLEON with expertise in pedagogy, organizational sociology, leadership training, and assessment to create an innovative training program. Two cohorts of fellows, along with their advisors, will participate in a series of 5 collaboratories that form its core. Asking and answering continental-scale questions will be the scientific goal. A final workshop with other major network education colleagues will help communicate successes and lessons learned to other Ecological Observatory Networks. Dozens of additional students will participate in shorter training sessions through GLEON all hands meetings. Central to this training program will be (1) development of technical, conceptual and analytical skills critical to carrying out macroscale biology and network science, (2) development of communication skills for collaboration, education and public outreach, (3) active participation in existing networks of people, data, and technologies, and perhaps most important (4) training and guidance by experts in how to build and sustain human networks through pedagogy, organizational structure, and leadership training. Ongoing assessments will be used to refine the program and to measure success and guide future programs.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts: The GLEON GGSFP will develop scientists' capabilities to build and maintain the human infrastructure that is necessary to understand complex environmental system function under global change. Students will emerge from the program with significant skills in working within and utilizing networks of people, infrastructure, data and equipment, and the ability to ask and answer complex, large scale questions. Dozens of students will be engaged through GLEON, and intensive, focused training for two cohorts of ten fellows will be provided. Student cohorts will be selected to reflect gender, cultural and disciplinary diversity balance, following the practices fostered, and lessons learned with the GLEON Graduate Student Association. Coincident with the development of students will be a training exemplar for the ecological community. The outcomes and impact of this program will be extended throughout the community via web-distribution of collaboratory training and through social networking tools. In addition, primary graduate student advisors will experience new training models and tools; fellows will develop a network of mentors in addition to those at their home institution; and fellows and primary advisors, together, will develop outreach materials and/or curricula. Advances in scientific understanding through peer reviewed publications, including those having to do with organizational management will also result. The program will become part of the infrastructure of GLEON, providing new expertise in pedagogy, organizational theory, and leadership training, resulting in continued production of a highly trained work force with the dimensionality required to realize the promise of network science.","azure_battery","Collaborative Research: Building Analytical, Synthesis, and Human Network Skills Needed for Macrosystem Science: a Next Generation Graduate Student Training Model Based on GLEON",
"1519268","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Transnational Migration and the Global Circulation of Talent","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/1/2016","3/4/2016","Liza Weinstein","MA","Northeastern University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","2/28/2017","$12,000.00 ","Yingchan Zhang","l.weinstein@neu.edu","360 HUNTINGTON AVE","BOSTON","MA","360 HUNTINGTON AVE, BOSTON, MA","21155005","6173732508","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1519268 <br/>Liza Weinstein<br/>Yingchan Zhang<br/>Northeastern University<br/><br/>An increasing number of U.S.-educated Chinese have reportedly returned to China in recent years. Chinese state-run media emphasize the prosperous outlook for these returnees and the state's recognition of their importance for the country's transition to a knowledge economy. As Chinese cities compete to attract talented returnees, little is known about how the municipal strategies work and what roles returning skilled labor indeed play in Chinese cities' development. This dissertation research studies the ways in which Chinese cities recruit U.S.-educated Chinese talent to achieve their goal of stimulating urban development, and how these recruitment initiatives in turn affect the migration decisions and reincorporation experiences of the targeted returnees. This study addresses three questions: 1) how Chinese cities, in the hope of becoming global, recruit U.S.-trained Chinese talent back for development projects 2) how these recruitment programs affect the migration decisions of U.S-educated Chinese talent in the U.S. and the reincorporation experiences of the returnees in China 3) how the disjunctures between the ways the local Chinese state and the returnees conceptualize ""value"" and ""contribution"" influence the ways in which they interact with each other. To examine these themes, the researchers will conduct a case study of a major city in eastern China and utilize semi-structured interviews, participant observation and secondary analysis as the main methods of investigation. <br/><br/>This study has the following potential impacts. Firstly, it will contribute to social science research on urban development, global cities, and transnational migration by presenting a critical case for understanding the complexities of urban development in the neoliberal era and demonstrating how specific state development policies affect the relocation and settlement patterns of highly skilled professionals. Secondly, this study will provide implications for policy makers and urban planners. The findings will help cities that fiercely compete with each other in a globalizing world to better understand how the strategies of attracting talent work in practice and if these strategies do foster development. Moreover, this project will inform how to retain a highly competitive workforce that is globally mobile in nature in the contemporary era. As highly-skilled immigrants from Asia consist of an increasing part of the overall immigration to the U.S., it is essential for U.S. policy makers to understand these processes in order to make informed decisions about immigration reform in general and about policies to attract and retain highly skilled immigrants in particular.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Transnational Migration and the Global Circulation of Talent",
"1560727","Conferences: Advancing Movement and Mobility Science by Bridging Research on Human Mobility and Animal Movement Ecology","BCS","GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","5/1/2016","4/7/2016","Harvey Miller","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Sunil Narumalani","4/30/2018","$69,999.00 ","Gil Bohrer","miller.81@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1352, 1333","1352, 7556, 1333","$0.00 ","NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION<br/>GEOGRAPHY SPATIAL SCIENCES (GSS) PROGRAM<br/><br/>ABSTRACT<br/><br/>This award will support efforts to bring together scholars from around the world for two mobility and movement-related conferences at the University of Texas-Austin and Ohio State University. NSF support will facilitate the participation of up to 50 scholars and graduate students from the U.S. and other countries. The two conferences are aimed at stimulating research that draws from research communities that focus on human mobility and animal movement ecology. These two communities previously have not interacted extensively, so the conferences are expected to facilitate interactions across the research domains to enhance understanding of frameworks, approaches, and methods that are useful in studying varied complex, dynamic, spatiotemporal systems. The conferences will provide opportunities to share latest research and advance knowledge about understanding spatial behaviors and integrating research opportunities between the two domains. The conferences will stimulate research that ranges across a broad range of topics, including disease spread; social networks; information diffusion and its impacts on privacy and identity; knowledge transfer, and urban, social, and ecosystem dynamics. They also will facilitate scientific collaboration among young, underrepresented researchers who may not ordinarily have such networking opportunities.<br/><br/>These conferences will bring together a unique blend of scholars from the human mobility community, such as transportation, urban science, sociology, and public health and those researchers associated with movement ecology, a nascent but growing research area in the ecological sciences. The conferences will take place at a time when scientific communities are just beginning to focus on movement and interactions motivated by advances in location-aware technologies and high spatial resolution global datasets. The first conference will focus on measuring and analyzing interactions among mobile entities. The second conference will focus on analyzing mobility data in the geographic context. The events will include a balanced mix of keynote addresses from top scholars in the fields, interdisciplinary research presentations to facilitate interactions amongst the diverse set of scientists, and breakout group activities to delve deeper into specific topical areas.","crimson_battery","Conferences: Advancing Movement and Mobility Science by Bridging Research on Human Mobility and Animal Movement Ecology",
"1559862","REU Site: Hazards and Risks of Climate Change in the Pacific Northwest","EAR","EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES","5/1/2016","4/5/2016","Anne Egger","WA","Central Washington University","Continuing grant","Lina C. Patino","4/30/2019","$123,522.00 ","Daniel Hanley","annegger@geology.cwu.edu","400 E. University Way","Ellensburg","WA","400 E. University Way, Ellensburg, WA","989267500","5099632111","GEO","1575","9250","$0.00 ","The hazards and risks associated with climate change are a pressing concern in the Pacific Northwest. Assessing risks associated with climate-related hazards requires an interdisciplinary approach that explores the nature of the hazard itself; the economic, social, and political vulnerabilities of the communities in the region; and communication strategies that reach a diverse audience. The primary goal of this project is to introduce students to and engage them in interdisciplinary hazards research that is relevant to their lives and livelihoods, and to do so early in their college careers. The project will bring up to 10 students per year from community colleges, tribal colleges, and universities throughout the Pacific Northwest to Central Washington University to conduct research spanning multiple disciplines, including hydrology, atmospheric science, sociology, geography, geology, and documentary film-making. Students will also work together on a grand challenge project to survey their communities about their perceived risks to climate change, integrate their individual research projects, and develop resources for communicating about climate change risks back to their own communities. They will present the results of their work at a regional conference hosted at CWU.<br/><br/>An additional goal of this project is to develop a community around the idea of interdisciplinary climate hazards and risks research, one that can not only advance our understanding of these topics, but one that serves as a support network for transfer students, especially those from two-year colleges, to succeed in the four-year college environment. Many students at regional community colleges are from groups traditionally underrepresented in the STEM disciplines, and their communities are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change. This project will support ongoing interactions between students, faculty at their home institution, faculty and students at Central Washington University, and the surrounding communities, emphasizing the role of research in building resiliency.","charcoal_atom","REU Site: Hazards and Risks of Climate Change in the Pacific Northwest",
"1556070","Expanding Law and Social Science Research by International Research Collaboration","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","10/1/2016","4/18/2016","Valerie Hans","UT","Law and Society Association","Standard Grant","Lee Walker","9/30/2017","$293,250.00 ","Masayuki Murayama, Manuel Gomez, Lawrence Friedman","vh42@cornell.edu","383 South University Street","Salt Lake City","UT","383 South University Street, Salt Lake City, UT","841120730","8015813219","SBE","1372","9150","$0.00 ","General Summary <br/><br/>This project supports the work of groups of law and social science researchers organized to carry out research on the relationship between law and society with a global reach. The objective is to strengthen law and social science scholarship generally and especially that of U.S. scholars by connecting them with theoretical, methodological, and policy discussions taking place among law and social science researchers in other parts of the world. Transnational problems, such as terrorism, human trafficking, pandemics, immigration, international finance and trade, gender inequality, and natural resource governance, require responses that take into account the legal institutions and practices of many different countries. Cross-disciplinary and cross-national teams will advance science and help diversify the scientific workforce by bringing wider perspectives to the problems they address. By facilitating international exchange in the area of socio-legal research, US scholars can expand their own perspectives, which will also help their work on domestic US problems. US scholars can also, in partnership with their peers in other countries, make greater contributions to public policy and practice on a global scale. Nation-states in war-torn or less affluent regions of the world may be better able to find their own solutions as well as to cooperate more effectively with external aid agencies and foreign governments when their own scholars are well equipped to advise policy-makers, and when the governments can draw upon international scholarly networks for their own institution building. <br/><br/>Technical Summary<br/><br/>This project supports the work of cross-national and cross-disciplinary International Research Collaboratives (IRCs), research groups that incorporate global perspectives on important law and social science problems. The research groups will meet at a joint international conference in Mexico City in 2017 of the Law and Society Association and the Research Committee on the Sociology of Law. The grant funds are used to enable scholars from low and middle income countries to participate in the research activities of the IRCs. The IRC model builds on past research collaborations supported by the National Science Foundation, collaborations that have produced many important theoretical and applied discoveries. The objective of the collaboratives is to strengthen law and social science scholarship of U.S. scholars by connecting them with theoretical, methodological, and policy discussions taking place among law and social science researchers in other parts of the world. Transnational problems, such as terrorism, human trafficking, pandemics, immigration, international finance and trade, gender inequality, and natural resource governance, require responses that take into account the legal institutions and practices of many different countries. The cross-disciplinary and cross-national teams will bring wider theoretical perspectives to the problems they address. The IRCs generate new knowledge about the most effective research methods for analyzing global law and social science phenomena.","crimson_battery","Expanding Law and Social Science Research by International Research Collaboration",
"1560592","Social Circle Panel for Studying the Accuracy of Social Judgements","SES","METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","4/1/2016","4/4/2016","Mirta Galesic","NM","Santa Fe Institute","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","3/31/2017","$89,752.00 ","Henrik Olsson","galesic@santafe.edu","1399 HYDE PARK ROAD","SANTA FE","NM","1399 HYDE PARK ROAD, SANTA FE, NM","875018943","5059462756","SBE","1333","9150","$0.00 ","This research project will examine the feasibility, challenges, and potential solutions to collecting valid and reliable data about how people's judgments of their social environments correspond to objective indicators about those environments. The literature in social psychology suggests that human social cognition is fraught with a host of cognitive and motivational biases that are difficult to explain within a coherent theoretical framework. In contrast, research in other fields studying human social behavior as well as some studies in the area of social cognition suggest that people are well attuned to their immediate social environments and that apparent biases may be caused by methodological problems. The data collected in this pilot project will inform this debate and help researchers from psychology, sociology, computational social science, and other fields build more coherent models of cognitive processes underlying social judgments. Many public educational programs rely on spread of knowledge and behaviors through people's networks. Project findings regarding the accuracy of human social judgments will have implications for those programs. The data will be archived in the public repository Open Science Collaboration.<br/><br/>This research project will test the feasibility of building an innovative methodological tool called the social circle panel to study the accuracy of people's judgments about the presence of different beliefs and behaviors in their social environments. Social circles will be defined by the frequency of contact. The online panel will aim to include participants with diverse sociodemographic characteristics as well as members of their social circles or personal networks. The panel will enable both the elicitation of subjective judgments of beliefs and behaviors in individuals' social circles, and the evaluation of those judgments against objective data collected from the members of their social circles. It also will enable measurement of the stability of people's judgments over time and the investigation of whether changes in one's social circle are reflected in one's judgments. Building the panel will require dealing with a number of methodological challenges ranging from biased samples to panel contamination. The data produced by this pilot study will be useful for researchers who wish to use similar tools to understand cognitive processes underlying network effects.","crimson_battery","Social Circle Panel for Studying the Accuracy of Social Judgements",
"1556980","DDRIG: Constructions and Understandings of Cancer Genetic Risk","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","2/15/2016","2/3/2016","Carole Vance","NY","Columbia University","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","1/31/2017","$12,600.00 ","Ronna Popkin","csv1@columbia.edu","2960 Broadway","NEW YORK","NY","2960 Broadway, NEW YORK, NY","100276902","2128546851","SBE","7603","7567","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This study seeks to shed light on how genetic risk for cancer is made visible, communicated, understood, and acted upon. Breast and ovarian cancer (BOC) genetic testing in the U.S. has recently undergone dramatic changes. The standard initial screening offered to patients has expanded from a test for high-risk mutations on two genes to a test for mutations on as many as 29 genes, many of which pose only a low or moderate risk of developing cancer. Through 12 months of fieldwork combining document analysis, participant observation, and in-depth interviews with health professionals and mutation carriers, this study will investigate the following three key questions. How is BOC genetic risk made visible in the era of multi-gene panel testing? How is genetic risk information understood and acted upon by diverse carriers of BOC mutations? Finally, how are relationships among and between laboratory researchers, medical experts, and patients being transformed by the utilization of multi-gene panel tests? Examining these questions will help to reveal the social and structural dimensions of risk and genetic medicine. The proposed study will broaden and deepen understandings of the personal, clinical, and societal implications of the recent expansions of genetic testing. Its findings might also aid patients in medical decision-making and enhance broader public literacy in genetic biomedicine.<br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>This project brings STS frameworks to the study of risk. Using tools and theoretical frameworks from science and technology studies (STS), medical sociology, and gender studies, this project aims to understand how these recent shifts in the practices of genetic medicine are shaping the active construction of risk, beliefs and communication about risk, risk identities, and risk management decisions. It aims to examine how certain ideas about genetic risk gain credibility over others; how genetic risk is actively produced, not just discovered; and how social and cultural values are embedded in genetic risk technologies and risk management guidelines. This project also presents an opportunity to empirically investigate and further develop social theories on patienthood, biomedicalization, and health citizenship. This study will also explore whether and under what circumstances patients of BOC genetic medicine--a rapidly changing field that requires highly technical and specialized knowledge--form biosocial communities and act as empowered agents in relation to medical authority.","crimson_battery","DDRIG: Constructions and Understandings of Cancer Genetic Risk",
"1519246","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Boundaries and Local Resource Access in Gentrifying Neighborhoods.","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/23/2015","Gary Green","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$11,809.00 ","Katherine Fallon","gpgreen@wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","How do neighborhood residents experience social isolation and socioeconomic diversity in gentrifying neighborhoods? Studies of neighborhoods have historically explored socioeconomic diversity between segregated and homogeneous neighborhoods, finding local context impacts individual outcomes, such as educational attainment. However, gentrifying cities are experiencing an increase in density and population change, such that diversity is increasing within neighborhoods. This dissertation examines how access to and use of local resources changes for residents as population and neighborhood context gentrify. <br/><br/>Using place-based interviews paired with geo-spatial data on daily mobility patterns conducted in the gentrifying neighborhood of Crown Heights, Brooklyn I explore how socioeconomic diversity is constructed and experienced by residents, specifically asking: (1) how do residents perceive and negotiate access to and ownership over local resources, such as grocery stores and health services? (2) How do perceptions of access and ownership intersect with tenure, race, class, gender, and age status of residents? and (3) How does this access to local resources impact material inequality and daily travel time? The gentrification of American cities is producing growing socioeconomic diversity in places that have formerly been much more homogeneous, and this project seeks to understand how that diversity is experienced and dealt with at the local level.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Boundaries and Local Resource Access in Gentrifying Neighborhoods.",
"1519086","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Genetics, Environment, and the Influence of Eating Disorders on Marriage and Fertility Trajectories","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/17/2015","Rebecca Utz","UT","University of Utah","Standard Grant","Patricia White","9/30/2016","$9,602.00 ","Jennifer Tabler","Rebecca.utz@utah.edu","75 S 2000 E","SALT LAKE CITY","UT","75 S 2000 E, SALT LAKE CITY, UT","841128930","8015816903","SBE","1331","1331, 9150, 9179","$0.00 ","In life course theory, a turning point is defined as a particular event, experience, or set of behaviors that result in a significant change to the life or health trajectory of an individual. One set of behaviors that has not yet been incorporated into life course theory is eating disorders, despite the fact that approximately 24 million people in the US suffer from them. Eating disorders are known to be the result of genetic and epigenetic factors, and result in unfavorable physical and mental health outcomes that persist well into adulthood. Although preliminary evidence suggests that eating disorders result in poor social adjustment in adolescence and adulthood, including delinquency and higher unemployment, little research has explored the influence of eating disorders on markers of social wellbeing. This project examines whether eating disorders act as a turning point that disrupts, delays or inhibits other outcomes associated with adult development. <br/><br/>Specifically this study explores the relationship between eating disorders and outcomes related to family formation such as marriage and fertility behaviors using a sibling-comparison design. Biological siblings share similar genetic traits and generally develop in similar early-life environments. A sibling-comparison design allows for greater isolation of eating disorders as a particular divergent experience by accounting for a wide-array of early-life and epigenetic factors that may be associated with both the etiology and consequences of eating disorders. The project utilizes two data sources to examine the marriage and fertility experiences of individuals with eating disorders: The National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health) and the Utah Population Data Base (UPDB). Once completed, this project will be among the first studies to control for the epigenetic factors influencing both the risk for eating disorders and the outcomes associated with family formation during adulthood.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Genetics, Environment, and the Influence of Eating Disorders on Marriage and Fertility Trajectories",
"1539228","RIDIR: Longitudinal Intergenerational Family Electronic Micro-Database (LIFE-M)","SMA","Data Infrastructure, SCIENCE RESOURCES STATISTICS","9/15/2015","8/31/2015","Martha Bailey","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Heng Xu","8/31/2020","$2,129,972.00 ","","baileymj@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","8294, 8800","7433, 9179","$0.00 ","Some of the most important questions in social science and public policy relate to how individuals' lives and experiences have changed across time. However, most data spanning the late 19th and 20th centuries are cross-sectional -- large sets of individuals at one point in time. Cross-sectional data limit the study of economic and geographic mobility, family formation and dissolution, and the long-term impacts of adverse events, public policies, or family background. This proposal seeks to transform vital records data into the Longitudinal, Intergenerational Family Electronic Micro-Database (LIFE-M). LIFE-M comprehensively covers individuals born in the United States from 1880 to 1930, including representative samples of men and women, linking networks of families across up to four generations, and census information with measures of health, family background, and early life context. <br/><br/>LIFE-M allows for the comprehensive study of the economic and geographic mobility of individuals and families, family formation and dissolution, and the long-term effects of adverse events, public policies, and family resources on economic and family processes. LIFE-M is constructed by linking digitized vita records (birth, death and mortality certificates) with historical records from decennial census. The major advantage of the data assembled is the ability to carry out comprehensive, longitudinal analyses of large samples and subsamples of individuals and families over multiple generations. The LIFE-M database will be made accessible in a user-friendly format for researchers and policy analysts to use. The project is of groundbreaking utility for researchers in demography, geography, sociology, and economics. In addition, the project is of great utility to policy makers and policy analysts interested in the historical context for understanding mobility and demographic change in the United States over the 20th century.","crimson_battery","RIDIR: Longitudinal Intergenerational Family Electronic Micro-Database (LIFE-M)",
"1559913","Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Award: Effects Of Colonial Interaction In A Traditional Society Context","BCS","DDRI Archaeology","1/1/2016","12/8/2015","Stuart Smith","CA","University of California-Santa Barbara","Standard Grant","John E. Yellen","12/31/2016","$25,200.00 ","Jessika Akmenkalns","stsmith@anth.ucsb.edu","Office of Research","SANTA BARBARA","CA","Office of Research, SANTA BARBARA, CA","931062050","8058934188","SBE","7606","1391","$0.00 ","UC Santa Barbara doctoral candidate Jessika Akmenkalns, supervised by Dr. Stuart Tyson Smith, will conduct research on how cross-cultural interactions and colonialism transformed cultural identities in hinterland communities in ancient Nubia (northern Sudan) between 2500 and 1000 BC. Archaeology provides a unique window through which researchers and the general public alike can come to understand how colonialism and long-term struggles for political and economic power affect the daily lives of individuals and groups, both locally and on a broad regional scale. This research is particularly relevant in today's global political climate, in which ethnic, religious, and national identities bear significant impact on access to land, resources, and opportunities. This project will contribute to a better understanding of these issues on a broad scale because investigations of colonialism crosscut the social sciences, including anthropology, sociology, history, geography, economics, and political science. In addition, the project will provide university students with educational opportunities and scientific training, and the field and laboratory experience gained on the project will fulfill students' degree requirements. The data collected as part of this research will form the basis of Ms. Akmenkalns' doctoral dissertation.<br/><br/>Previous research on cross-cultural interactions has focused on large, urban populations, or it has focused on the strategies of colonizing powers. While it is certainly important to examine how such interactions impact major centers and powerful political entities, it is also essential to investigate how rural communities experience changing power structures and how they construct their community identities in opposition to those of foreign cultural groups. The following research questions guide this project: 1) What was the extent of Egyptian presence or influence in rural Nubia before and during Egyptian conquest of the region? 2) What was the importance of local and foreign cultural traditions in expressing cultural identity before and during the Egyptian conquest? 3) What differences, if any, were present in elite vs. non-elite and urban vs. rural expressions of cultural identity in the region? To answer these questions, this project will employ archaeological excavations at the sites of Hannek and Abu Fatima, which are located in the hinterlands of the ancient kingdom of Kerma in northern Sudan. Researchers will investigate the remains of houses, public buildings, and tombs to examine ancient diet and health, as well as the production and use of pottery, tools, jewelry, and architecture. These artifact types are useful in understanding cultural identities because they are integral to daily life and the routine behaviors that structure those identities. Archaeologists will perform preliminary analysis on artifacts and samples during the excavation season, followed by additional in-depth analyses that will be performed in US laboratories, to include radiocarbon dating, ceramic and stone tool classification, and the analysis of dietary samples such as animal and plant remains.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Award: Effects Of Colonial Interaction In A Traditional Society Context",
"1519109","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The influence of home and school experiences on preschool children's dispositions and behaviors","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2015","4/1/2015","Mustafa Emirbayer","WI","University of Wisconsin-Madison","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$10,733.00 ","Casey Stockstill","emirbaye@ssc.wisc.edu","21 North Park Street","MADISON","WI","21 North Park Street, MADISON, WI","537151218","6082623822","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","This dissertation examines how 4-year-old children develop patterns of behavior. Almost half of U.S. children in this age group attend preschool, spending 4-8 hours a day away from their parents. To better understand how children, teachers, and peers influence early socialization, I will conduct 12 months of observations both in the classroom and in children?s homes. I ask: (1) How do children interpret the implicit and explicit socialization messages from adults and peers? (2) How do children respond to conflicting socialization messages? By addressing these questions, my work highlights the social and cultural implications of current policy proposals to extend access to preschool for low-income children.<br/><br/>This research will build an account of the process of primary socialization. Primary socialization is a core process in the reproduction of culture and social inequalities. Yet despite acknowledging that children experience contact with multiple socializers, previous empirical work focuses in a single domain. Researchers either examine parents' messages to their children or examine peer culture as isolated from the adult world. In contrast, this project builds an empirical account of primary socialization as process happening across multiple domains and among multiple socializers.I examine the case of<br/>Head Start children at a childcare center in the Madison, Wisconsin area. My observations will be focused among the 17 children ages 3 and 4 in the Sunshine Room (a pseudonym). I have selected the Sunshine Room because of its demographic heterogeneity and because its extended childcare services allow most children spend more than 6 hours each weekday there. I will conduct ethnographic observations in order to trace the social interactions and the behaviors of individual children over time. I will conduct in-depth interviews to triangulate my observations with adults' narratives of their approach to socialization. Altogether this data collection and analysis will provide information to academics and policy-makers on the socialization mechanisms and messages communicated between parents and care providers for young children.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: The influence of home and school experiences on preschool children's dispositions and behaviors",
"1518366","CNH-S: Linkages Among Farmer Decision Making, Beneficial Bird Species, and Pest Management in Fruit-Growing Systems","DEB","DYN COUPLED NATURAL-HUMAN","9/1/2015","8/14/2015","Catherine Lindell","MI","Michigan State University","Standard Grant","Betsy Von Holle","8/31/2018","$498,650.00 ","Brian Maurer, Philip Howard","lindellc@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","BIO","1691","1691, 9278, 9169, EGCH","$0.00 ","Understanding how ecosystems function and provide important services for humans is one of the great ecological challenges of the 21st century. This research examines how predator species contribute to reducing crop losses in agricultural ecosystems by consumption of crop-eating species, thereby providing an important ecosystem service that increases crop productivity. By learning how to enhance the abundance and activity of predators, agricultural productivity and environmental quality should improve. Strengthening this type of ecosystem service is increasingly important given evidence of negative effects of chemical pest management and consumer preferences for food produced with fewer chemical inputs. This project investigates whether predatory bird populations increase when researchers provide nest boxes in fruit-growing regions and whether the predatory birds in turn reduce crop damage by consuming crop-eating insects, rodents, and birds. Further, the project investigates factors that potentially influence fruit growers' decisions about the use of predator nest boxes, including economic and consumer-preference considerations. The work will result in greater knowledge about the contexts under which humans can enhance ecosystem service delivery. It will provide information about factors that influence fruit grower adoption of management strategies of crop-eating species. Finally, it will document the value of nest-box programs to the conservation of predatory bird species.<br/><br/>This research focuses on the American kestrel, Falco sparverius, a falcon whose prey species damage cherries, blueberries, and other fruits. The work addresses two hypotheses: 1) resource subsidies in the form of nest boxes for kestrels reduce prey activity and abundance and, thus, reduce damage to cultivated fruit and 2) the economics of fruit production, consumer preferences for particular pest management techniques, and kestrel conservation will influence grower decisions about installing nest boxes, and produce positive feedbacks on the growth of nest-box programs in agricultural regions. Researchers will survey abundance and activity of kestrels and crop-eating species, as well as fruit damage, in landscapes with and without kestrels using nest boxes. They will calculate costs and benefits to individual growers and regional economies of utilizing predator nest boxes in fruit-producing regions. The project will use a national survey of fruit growers and in-person interviews, along with modeling approaches, to investigate factors that influence grower adoption of predator nest boxes as a pest management practice. By integrating information from ecology, economics, and food systems sociology, the project will improve understanding of linkages between natural predator-prey effects, the degree to which humans can manipulate such effects through providing resources to predators, and the potential for factors other than economic ones to influence grower decisions about agricultural practices.","azure_battery","CNH-S: Linkages Among Farmer Decision Making, Beneficial Bird Species, and Pest Management in Fruit-Growing Systems",
"1550804","Travel Support for Participants in the 2015 New Security Paradigms Workshop","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","8/1/2015","7/22/2015","Matt Bishop","CA","University of California-Davis","Standard Grant","Deborah Shands","5/31/2017","$10,000.00 ","","mabishop@ucdavis.edu","OR/Sponsored Programs","Davis","CA","OR/Sponsored Programs, Davis, CA","956186134","5307547700","CSE","8060","7434, 7556","$0.00 ","This award will support student travel to the 2015 New Security Paradigms Workshop to be held in Twente, the Netherlands, in September 2015. The New Security Paradigms Workshop (NSPW) provides a stimulating, safe, and highly interactive forum for innovative approaches to computer security. NSPW encourages graduate students and junior faculty to examine long-held ideas within computer security. It also strongly encourages non-computer security experts from economics, sociology, psychology, and other disciplines to bring their expertise to bear on computer security paradigms. The support from NSF will be used to sponsor travel expenses for graduate students and junior faculty to attend the workshop. Supporting junior researchers' travel to attend professional conferences and workshops is a very important mission of the NSF. Broader impacts include training the next generation of researchers in this important research area.","lime_battery","Travel Support for Participants in the 2015 New Security Paradigms Workshop",
"1559643","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining Voters Attachments to Charismatic Legacies","SES","Political Science DDRIG","5/15/2016","5/5/2016","Bethany Albertson","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Brian D. Humes","4/30/2017","$18,900.00 ","Kurt Weyland, Caitlin Andrews","balberts@austin.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","SBE","009Y","1371, 9179","$0.00 ","General Summary<br/><br/>Conventional wisdom suggests that charismatic leaders' allure fades quickly after their deaths. Why, then, do many individuals become and remain attached to the legacies of some charismatic leaders? The PI conducts a survey experiment that directly tests the strategies and conditions under which new leaders can reactivate citizens' attachment to political parties that were established as vehicles for charismatic leaders in order to garner political support. The results of this study will inform debates about the nature and consequences of charismatic leadership across disciplines including political science, sociology, psychology, and business management. Furthermore, the project will clarify how different types of attachment to charismatic legacies might strengthen or undermine democratic representation and electoral competition. Finally, the results can serve to inform political communication and campaign strategy in countries with strong charismatic legacies.<br/><br/>Technical Summary<br/><br/>This project investigates the nature and evolution of citizens' attachments to weakly institutionalized political movements founded by charismatic leaders. The PI argues that new leaders can tap into the charismatic founders' legacies to sustain or reactivate support through one of three mechanisms: 1) a programmatic mechanism that link citizens' ties to the movement through programs and policies; 2)a grassroots mechanism that posits that citizens' attachments are preserved through participation in the movement' organizations; 3) a personalistic mechanism that indicates that citizens' attachments remain anchored in the founder's charisma. The PI test these three mechanisms through a survey experiment that examines the relative influence of each mechanism on citizens' attachment to the legacy parties. Individuals are randomly assigned to read a short news piece containing one of four experimental conditions, three of which will prime either the programmatic, grassroots, or personalistic aspects of the movement, and the fourth of which will contain no prime. Subsequently, participants will answer questions about their identification with the movement, support for its leaders, emotional attachment, and political attitudes and behaviors. The PI uses difference-of-means and difference-of-proportions tests to examine which mechanism provides the basis for followers' attachments to the movement. The Pi uses Argentina and Venezuela as the cases of interest.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Explaining Voters Attachments to Charismatic Legacies",
"1518862","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding Inequalities in Response to Disaster Recovery","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/15/2015","4/1/2015","Patricia Richards","GA","University of Georgia Research Foundation Inc","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$12,000.00 ","Ashleigh McKinzie","plr333@uga.edu","310 East Campus Rd","ATHENS","GA","310 East Campus Rd, ATHENS, GA","306021589","7065425939","SBE","1331","1331, 9179","$0.00 ","This dissertation uses qualitative methods to investigate how inequalities based on race, class, gender and age are constituted in long-term recovery from tornadoes that occurred in Joplin, Missouri and Tuscaloosa, Alabama in 2011. This research has implications for disaster mitigation, making cities more resilient after disaster, and the creation of better social policies. First, since disasters are increasing globally this research will provide disaster practitioners with information about long-term recovery and how recovery varies by social groups. Second, because Joplin and Tuscaloosa responded to their tornadoes in different ways, this dissertation compares how varying local governmental responses influences long-term recovery. Third, based on our findings, the investigators will recommend future policy directions for disaster mitigation, prevention and resilience. <br/><br/>The dissertation project is a multi-sited qualitative study utilizing participant observation, interviews and archival work. The investigators ask the following research questions: 1) How have spaces inside Joplin and Tuscaloosa been constructed in classed, gendered, and racialized ways, creating particular privileges and vulnerabilities in processes of long-term recovery? 2a) What resources were available to people in Joplin and Tuscaloosa after the tornadoes? 2b) How does this vary by location and what factors contribute to this variation? Findings from this research can assist governmental and non-profit disaster organizations providing aid and resources in long-term recovery in ways that are sensitive to inequalities and cultural and geographic difference","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Understanding Inequalities in Response to Disaster Recovery",
"1250786","BIGDATA: Small: DA: Mining large graphs through subgraph sampling","IIS","Big Data Science &Engineering","10/1/2013","2/29/2016","Harish Sethu","PA","Drexel University","Standard Grant","Sylvia J. Spengler","9/30/2017","$560,367.00 ","Steven Weber","sethu@drexel.edu","1505 Race St, 8th Floor","Philadelphia","PA","1505 Race St, 8th Floor, Philadelphia, PA","191021119","2158955849","CSE","8083","7433, 7923, 8083, 9251","$0.00 ","The size and complexity of these ""Big Data"" graphs have always posed significant challenges, limiting the scope of their analysis and thus also limiting the implications that one can draw from them. Mining data from large real-world graphs typically poses two challenges: one of computational resources and another of incomplete information. A comprehensive analysis of these graphs has usually required access to large distributed computing platforms and sophisticated software. This project aims to address a portion of these challenges by investigating a new method, based in statistics and spectral graph theory, to infer essential properties of the full graph through extracting a representative sample of small subgraphs from the full graph. The goal is to reduce the computational burden on researchers interested in large graphs and thus broaden participation in ""Big Data"" activities. As is now well-understood, the analysis of large graphs has many applications in a variety of fields including business, economics, public policy development, law enforcement, public health, sociology and, of course, computer science. This breadth of applicability and the proposed curriculum development activities have the potential to draw and retain a greater diversity of students into computer science and engineering and increasing the participation by under-represented groups.<br/><br/>Many of the principal properties of a graph can be inferred from the graph spectrum (eigenvalues of its adjacency or the normalized Laplacian matrix). In particular, a rich set of interlacing results in spectral graph theory allows one to bound the eigenvalues of the full graph using the eigenvalues of its subgraphs. This project will develop new algorithms for generating subgraph samples, and then use basic estimation theory from statistics and the interlacing results from spectral graph theory to discern properties of a large graph. The new method based on subgraph sampling (as opposed to node or edge sampling) uses results from spectral graph theory and statistics to estimate the spectrum (eigenvalues) of the graph based on the spectrum of the sampled subgraphs. The goal is to allow a meaningful analysis of extremely large graphs without the use of anything beyond a typical desktop computer. The data collected and the algorithms developed as part of this project will be made available to the larger research community through a data repository hosted by Drexel University. The project will also make contributions to open-source software.","lime_battery","BIGDATA: Small: DA: Mining large graphs through subgraph sampling",
"1260362","Racial Neighborhood Inequality in the United States, 1980-2010","BCS","SOCIOLOGY","7/1/2013","3/26/2013","Glenn Firebaugh","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Thomas J. Baerwald","12/31/2016","$145,025.00 ","","gaf1@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331","1331, 1352","$0.00 ","This research project will examine economic differences in the neighborhoods where whites, blacks, Hispanics, and Asians live in the U.S. Although it is commonly believed that blacks and Hispanics generally live in neighborhoods where poverty rates are higher than they are in the neighborhoods where whites and Asians live, very little research has tracked the change in racial disparities in neighborhood conditions over time. In prior research, this project's investigators found that racial differences in neighborhood economic conditions have diminished in the U.S. Since 1980 the decline in racial neighborhood inequality has been much faster than the decline in racial residential segregation. Because prior research on neighborhoods has focused on change in the residential segregation of different racial and ethnic groups, the trend in racial neighborhood inequality has been largely overlooked, and its causes are unknown. The objective of this project is to account for the decline in racial neighborhood inequality by investigating why it has declined faster in some metropolitan areas than in others. The investigators theorize that this largely-unnoticed decline in racial neighborhood inequality is attributable to the rising importance of income and the declining importance of race as factors influencing where people reside. This theory will be tested using census data for all U.S. metropolitan areas (comprising 80 percent of the total U.S. population) in 1980, 1990, 2000, and 2010.<br/><br/>As a general rule, high-income neighborhoods have good schools, reliable social services, low crime rates, and green space. Low-income neighborhoods are characterized by the opposite. As a result, racial inequality at the neighborhood level likely serves as the wellspring for many other types of racial disparities in American society. In contrast to the large number of studies examining the racial segregation of neighborhoods, no studies have employed the most statistically appropriate methods for investigating racial inequality in neighborhood income environments. This project will provide new insights and information regarding which groups are converging with respect to neighborhood economic environments and why they are doing so. The project therefore will enhance basic understanding of one of the most crucial axes of racial inequality in America today. Project findings will be useful for policymakers, the informed public, and other scholars examining this and related topics. The project also will provide valuable education and training opportunities for graduate students.","crimson_battery","Racial Neighborhood Inequality in the United States, 1980-2010",
"1259046","The Social Production of Risk Perceptions","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2013","3/12/2013","Javier Auyero","TX","University of Texas at Austin","Standard Grant","Patricia White","12/31/2016","$149,676.00 ","","auyero@austin.utexas.edu","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300","Austin","TX","101 E. 27th Street, Suite 5.300, Austin, TX","787121532","5124716424","SBE","1331","1331","$0.00 ","This project seeks to understand and explain the mechanisms and processes involved in the social production of risk perceptions and in the ebb and flow of environmental protest. Based on ethnographic fieldwork in three marginalized and contaminated communities, the project will scrutinize changes over time in shared understandings about toxic risk and in environmental collective action. The research will: a) examine the life-threatening effects of environmental contamination in three highly polluted marginalized communities in the Americas, b) explain the (sometimes puzzling and contradictory) meanings their poor residents ascribe to it, and c) examine the links between shared understandings about contamination and the cycles of mobilization and de-mobilization around environmental matters that these communities have witnessed during the past two decades. The main questions this project will address are the following: How do poor people make sense of (and cope with) toxic danger? When and why do they understand what is objectively a clear and present danger? When and how do shared understandings about threatening pollution trigger collective action? <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>This project will bring together the often dispersed insights that have developed over the past three decades in the study of risk perception, environmental collective action, and urban poverty. In analyzing the relationship between marginality, risk, and contention this research will seek to create intellectual bridges among several areas of study. This work will seek to enrich the discourse in these areas by offering a more comprehensive understanding of environmental suffering and contention, extend the boundaries of these fields to include relevant dynamics borrowed from the others, and advance the intellectual integration of these fields. Doctoral dissertations, academic articles, and a book will be the outcome of this project.","crimson_battery","The Social Production of Risk Perceptions",
"1436456","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Social Media and the Transnational Mobilization of Social Movements","SES","SOCIOLOGY","12/1/2014","11/19/2014","J. Craig Jenkins","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Marie Cornwall","11/30/2016","$11,478.00 ","Matthew Stearmer","jenkins.12@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","This dissertation examines whether host country immigration policies shape the discourses and organizational alliances of worldwide advocacy groups. The project analyses the case of specific diaspora in Western Europe and the United States. Drawing on internet documents, website hyperlinks and social media affiliations, it uses cross-national comparison to examine: (1) the effects of host country immigration policies on the discourses and network structure of diaspora advocacy organizations; (2) the social media affiliations with these discourses among the host country diaspora population; and (3) the ethnic identities and participation of diaspora activists in these host countries. <br/><br/>This study analyzes over four thousand active websites associated with diasporic advocacy in two dozen countries. Comparative analysis examines how host country immigration policies shape the prevalence of these different discourses (e.g. ethnic autonomy and separatism), the affiliation rates among the host country population and the network structure of hyperlinks among websites that indicate alliances and divides among these advocacy groups. Finally, we examine whether these organizational patterns are linked to rates of violence by and against diaspora in these countries. This research has implications for theoretical development and use by stakeholders relative to similar cases.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Social Media and the Transnational Mobilization of Social Movements",
"1459847","White Flight, Discrimination, and the Origins of Urban Segregation in the United States","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/10/2015","Allison Shertzer","MA","National Bureau of Economic Research Inc","Standard Grant","Kwabena Gyimah-Brempong","4/30/2018","$431,689.00 ","Randall Walsh","shertzer@pitt.edu","1050 Massachusetts Avenue","Cambridge","MA","1050 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA","21385398","6178683900","SBE","1320, 1331","9179","$0.00 ","Residential segregation by race is one of the most visible and persistent characteristics of American cities. This project improves our knowledge of the emergence of segregation in the United States with a series of data and methodological advances. Whereas previous work on the causes of segregation relied largely on descriptive analyses and coarse tabulations of urban populations, this project constructs the first fine-grained, spatial demographic dataset with neighborhood comparability over time for the early twentieth century. <br/>The emergence of segregation in the United States merits more thorough empirical investigation because of its implications for understanding racial disparities in the United States as well as attempts to achieve integration and equality. Policymakers have primarily focused on dismantling discriminatory informal institutions to reduce segregation, most notably with the Fair Housing Act of 1968, which outlawed discrimination by sellers and landlords based on race. Yet segregation remains a significant issue nearly a half century later. The proposed analysis illuminates this problem by revisiting the scholarly consensus that discriminatory informal institutions were the driving force behind the rise of segregation in American cities.<br/>Because research on segregation crosses disciplinary boundaries, the data and methods developed over the course of this project will attract broad interest across the social sciences.<br/><br/>This project digitizes and synthesizes a significant set of related historical geographic data sources, including maps of comprehensive zoning ordinances, land use, HOLC/FHA security zones, streetcar grids, and the location of restrictive covenants. With this advance in data quality, the PIs address previously unanswerable questions about what led to the emergence of segregation in American cities. In particular, they isolate and systematically investigate the role of uncoordinated market choices, informal institutions, and government policies on the emergence of racial residential segregation.<br/>The findings will shed light on how segregation arose in American cities, providing context for policymaking related to integration and the elimination of racial disparities. More generally, the capacity of scholars to rigorously investigate the early development of American cities has been hampered by the near total lack of systematic fine-scale spatial data covering urban areas in the early twentieth century. This project remedies this gap in the nation's statistical infrastructure by compiling census data for small geographic areas and creating consistent neighborhoods over time.","crimson_battery","White Flight, Discrimination, and the Origins of Urban Segregation in the United States",
"1628141","United States Participation in the 2016-17 World Values Survey","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2016","9/8/2016","Jon Miller","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$321,088.00 ","Ronald Inglehart","jondmiller@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES- 1628141<br/>Jon Miller<br/>Ronald Inglehart<br/>University of Michigan<br/><br/>This award supports the participation of the United States in the 7th cycle (2016-7) of the World Values Survey (WVS). The WVS was initiated in 1981 with substantial leadership from the United States. Over the last 36 years, the WVS has been the only source of information on mass values and attitudes from countries containing the majority of the world's population. The availability of data from the WVS makes it possible to analyze (1) the impact of economic and technological change on people?s values, and (2) the impact of individual-level values and beliefs on societal-level characteristics such as the extent to which a society has democratic values. The WVS includes a set of items measuring attitudes toward science and technology. Current controversies over topics such as global climate change, genetically modified foods, and infectious diseases illustrate the importance of understanding the formation and distribution of these attitudes.<br/><br/>The WVS is built on a general model of individual attitude formation that includes the early influence of family, the social norms and culture of an individual?s community, and broader societal beliefs about religion and economic systems. A common questionnaire is constructed by scholars from more than 50 countries and is administered in each country using methods and modes appropriate to that country. The social, economic, and political values of individuals are changing and these changes have a major impact on a wide range of societal expectations and public policies. These values also have a major influence on the extent to which a society has good governance and democratic institutions. In order to make effective policy, it is important for policy makers to be informed about these trends and the reasons underlying them. Numerous scholars have used WVS data in analyzing social change, producing hundreds of books and more than 1,000 articles. More than 100,000 students and faculty from all six continents downloaded data and information from the 6th cycle of the WVS. These data have also been used for instructional purposes by many social scientists : one publisher estimates that more than 50,000 students use WVS data with their textbooks each year.","crimson_battery","United States Participation in the 2016-17 World Values Survey",
"1626753","Collaborative Research: Enhancing Public Access: Archiving Court Cases to Study Genocide and Transitional Justice","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, NSF Public Access Initiative","9/15/2016","9/6/2016","Christopher Uggen","MN","University of Minnesota-Twin Cities","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$88,594.00 ","","uggen001@umn.edu","200 OAK ST SE","Minneapolis","MN","200 OAK ST SE, Minneapolis, MN","554552070","6126245599","SBE","1331, 1372, 7414","","$0.00 ","In the twentieth century, genocide killed more people than wars or homicide. Understanding who commits genocide and how to bring justice in its aftermath is therefore vitally important in the twenty-first century. Accordingly, this project will examine unique court data from the 1994 genocide in Rwanda to assess the characteristics of the hundreds of thousands of civilians who participated in the genocide, how courts in Rwanda sought to hold these individuals accountable, and how such legal responses to mass violence affected individuals and communities. Because many other instances of mass violence involve civilian participation, understanding the characteristics of people who commit mass violence holds the potential to inform interventions to stop or prevent violence. Courts and related justice mechanisms that hold perpetrators accountable are also implemented in countries worldwide, and understanding how these courts function and the effects they have on people and communities will likewise inform future justice efforts. The project results will therefore be widely disseminated to academic, governmental, and public audiences that include organizations forecasting and responding to mass violence, such as the UN Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, as well as organizations that facilitate legal responses in the aftermath of violence, such as the International Center for Transitional Justice. <br/><br/>This project asks three related questions to contribute to social scientific scholarship on mass violence and its aftermath: 1) Who participates in mass violence? 2) What influences legal responses to this participation? And 3) How do legal responses to mass violence affect individuals and societies? To do so, the investigators examine the case of Rwanda, where as many as one million people were killed in 1994. Rwandans who participated in the violence were later tried in gacaca courts, a community-based justice system that the Government of Rwanda created in the aftermath of the genocide. By analyzing 1.96 million gacaca court case files, this project will assess who participated in the violence, how the gacaca courts responded, and the influence of the gacaca courts on Rwandan citizens and communities today. This project makes three core scientific contributions: (1) Existing studies of genocide stress the normality of perpetrators, though few large-scale studies have empirically assessed the characteristics of those who take part in violent collective action. Gacaca court records constitute the largest dataset of perpetrators of violence to date, allowing for an analysis of the characteristics of the civilians who participated in the genocide. (2) The gacaca court system uniquely blended punitive and restorative justice to respond to civilian participants. Better understanding how these courts functioned is vital to scientific understanding of the law in action, transitional justice mechanisms, and community-based justice. This will include an analysis of the individual and community-level factors that influenced court processes and punishments, invoking questions that are central to scholars of inequality and socio-legal processes. (3) Third, understanding gacaca will inform literature on transitional justice mechanisms, ranging from their long-term influence on participants to their influence on the communities where court proceedings occurred.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Enhancing Public Access: Archiving Court Cases to Study Genocide and Transitional Justice",
"1626123","Collaborative Research: Enhancing Public Access: Archiving Court Cases to Study Genocide and Transitional Justice","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, NSF Public Access Initiative","9/15/2016","9/6/2016","Hollie Brehm","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$155,285.00 ","","brehm.84@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331, 1372, 7414","","$0.00 ","SES-1626123 <br/>Hollie Brehm <br/>Ohio State University <br/><br/>SES-1626753 <br/>Christopher Uggen <br/>University of Minnesota <br/><br/>In the twentieth century, genocide killed more people than wars or homicide. Understanding who commits genocide and how to bring justice in its aftermath is therefore vitally important in the twenty-first century. Accordingly, this project will examine unique court data from the 1994 genocide in Rwanda to assess the characteristics of the hundreds of thousands of civilians who participated in the genocide, how courts in Rwanda sought to hold these individuals accountable, and how such legal responses to mass violence affected individuals and communities. Because many other instances of mass violence involve civilian participation, understanding the characteristics of people who commit mass violence holds the potential to inform interventions to stop or prevent violence. Courts and related justice mechanisms that hold perpetrators accountable are also implemented in countries worldwide, and understanding how these courts function and the effects they have on people and communities will likewise inform future justice efforts. The project results will therefore be widely disseminated to academic, governmental, and public audiences that include organizations forecasting and responding to mass violence, such as the UN Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, as well as organizations that facilitate legal responses in the aftermath of violence, such as the International Center for Transitional Justice. <br/><br/>This project asks three related questions to contribute to social scientific scholarship on mass violence and its aftermath: 1) Who participates in mass violence? 2) What influences legal responses to this participation? And 3) How do legal responses to mass violence affect individuals and societies? To do so, the investigators examine the case of Rwanda, where as many as one million people were killed in 1994. Rwandans who participated in the violence were later tried in gacaca courts, a community-based justice system that the Government of Rwanda created in the aftermath of the genocide. By analyzing 1.96 million gacaca court case files, this project will assess who participated in the violence, how the gacaca courts responded, and the influence of the gacaca courts on Rwandan citizens and communities today. This project makes three core scientific contributions: (1) Existing studies of genocide stress the normality of perpetrators, though few large-scale studies have empirically assessed the characteristics of those who take part in violent collective action. Gacaca court records constitute the largest dataset of perpetrators of violence to date, allowing for an analysis of the characteristics of the civilians who participated in the genocide. (2) The gacaca court system uniquely blended punitive and restorative justice to respond to civilian participants. Better understanding how these courts functioned is vital to scientific understanding of the law in action, transitional justice mechanisms, and community-based justice. This will include an analysis of the individual and community-level factors that influenced court processes and punishments, invoking questions that are central to scholars of inequality and socio-legal processes. (3) Third, understanding gacaca will inform literature on transitional justice mechanisms, ranging from their long-term influence on participants to their influence on the communities where court proceedings occurred.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Enhancing Public Access: Archiving Court Cases to Study Genocide and Transitional Justice",
"1535615","WORKSHOP: Prisoner Reentry and Reintegration: Improving Data Collection and Methodology to Advance Theory and Knowledge","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2015","7/28/2015","Johnna Christian","NJ","Rutgers University Newark","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2017","$48,753.00 ","Elsa Chen, Andrea Leverentz","johnnac@andromeda.rutgers.edu","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206","Newark","NJ","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206, Newark, NJ","71021896","9739720283","SBE","1331, 1372","7556, 9179","$0.00 ","This workshop about prisoner reentry will bring together invited participants from academic institutions, policy organizations, and government to present original research and share knowledge about relevant theoretical perspectives, best practices for the generation of high quality data, and innovative methodologies. The United States experienced a lengthy period of unprecedented prison population growth, and as a consequence substantial numbers of formerly incarcerated individuals are reentering society. These individuals have a broad range of needs such as finding employment, securing housing and reuniting with family members. In order to foster successful reintegration and enhance public safety, the workshop will document cutting edge research findings and highlight mechanisms for bridging research and policy.<br/><br/>The specific objectives of the workshop are to advance research, policy and practice by convening leading and emerging scholars and practitioners at the Rutgers University School of Criminal Justice. The workshop will help researchers make the best use of their resources, avoid methodological and practical pitfalls, and produce the highest-quality and most rigorous empirical research on the topic of prisoner reentry. Advancing research on reentry will have extensive impacts beyond academic circles. A more thorough understanding of the components of successful desistance, rehabilitation and reentry can inform public policy, which could assist millions of formerly-incarcerated individuals, enhance public safety, and enable criminal justice practitioners and policy makers to make effective and efficient use of scarce resources.","crimson_battery","WORKSHOP: Prisoner Reentry and Reintegration: Improving Data Collection and Methodology to Advance Theory and Knowledge",
"1625273","Collective Efficacy and Norm Violation: An Experimental Test","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2016","8/18/2016","Ross Matsueda","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$231,491.00 ","","matsueda@u.washington.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","SBE","1331, 1372","","$0.00 ","SES- 1625273<br/>Ross Matsueda<br/>University of Washington<br/><br/>This project examines an important question for social science theory and criminal justice policy: Does disorder in a community foster criminal and deviant behavior. Or is community efficacy responsible for both disorder and crime. The researchers approach this question by embedding field experiments with neighborhoods that vary by social capital and community efficacy. The answers to these questions have important intellectual payoffs and policy implications. Intellectually, the project will provide an important test of the broken windows hypothesis in criminology disorder is a cause of crime and norm violations versus the collective efficacy hypothesis disorder and crime are each caused by community efficacy, and therefore, disorder is spuriously related to crime. The project will yield stronger causal statements than previous research because it uses experimental methods. The project has important policy implications. If disorder causes crime directly, then zero-tolerance policing in which police focus on cleaning up streets of panhandlers, broken windows, graffiti, and other signs of disorder is called for. If disorder and crime are not causally related but are instead each caused by community efficacy, then policies of community empowerment increasing community resources, social ties, and civic participation are called for. The researchers are incorporating diverse and underrepresented students in the research process and working with the city of Seattle to disseminate their results.<br/><br/>To test broken windows theory against collective efficacy, the investigators will conduct experiments in multiple neighborhoods, capitalizing on their survey measures of collective efficacy and disadvantage. Five experiments will examine whether the presence of disorder (graffiti and litter on the ground)affects norm violating behavior. (1) A Letter Drop, in which 24 stamped addressed letters are dropped in each of 123 census tracts. Half will be dropped within sight of graffiti. The mail back rate provides a measure of collective efficacy, as well as a test of whether physical disorder (graffiti) impedes prosocial activity. (2) A Lost Envelope Experiment, in which an envelope with a visible $5 bill enclosed is placed near a mailbox, and passersby can either ignore, mail or steal the envelope. The treatment condition, graffiti and litter nearby, tests whether disorder promotes theft and impedes prosocial behavior. (3) A ""Litter Cam,"" in which a time-elapse camera will record time-to-cleanup in a setting filled with litter. The hypothesis tested is that time to clean up will be shorter in collectively efficacious neighborhoods. The treatment condition ""graffiti in the vicinity"" tests whether additional disorder impedes acts of collective efficacy. (4) Intervening During an Act of Littering, in which a confederate (varied by race and gender) is observed littering in front of local passersby. The outcome is whether passersby interrupt the confederate. We test the hypothesis that the race/gender of the litterer interacts with the race/gender of the intervener. (5) Littering a Flyer on a Car, in which a flyer placed on windshields of parked cars is either littered or not. The treatment, disorder (graffiti), tests the broken windows hypothesis.","crimson_battery","Collective Efficacy and Norm Violation: An Experimental Test",
"1626056","Collaborative Research: The Embeddedness of Indirect and Generalized Reciprocity","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2016","9/1/2016","Brent Simpson","SC","University of South Carolina at Columbia","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$170,055.00 ","","bts@sc.edu","Sponsored Awards Management","COLUMBIA","SC","Sponsored Awards Management, COLUMBIA, SC","292080001","8037777093","SBE","1331","9150, 9251","$0.00 ","SES-1626023<br/>David Melamed<br/>Ohio State University<br/><br/>SES-1626056<br/>Brent Simpson<br/>University of South Carolina Columbia<br/><br/>Generalized exchange systems are those where material, social, or other forms of support flow unilaterally between three or more actors (individuals, organizations, and nations). Researchers have noted that generalized exchange systems are the basis for the evolution of human morality and widespread social solidarity. This is because, unlike direct exchange relationships, which tend to set those involved apart from a broader group or network, generalized exchange embeds actors in a much larger structure of relations. <br/><br/>Prior research has identified two primary bases for generalized exchange systems: Generalized reciprocity occurs when an actor who receives benefits or help ""pays it forward"" by helping a third party (you help her because I helped you) while indirect reciprocity occurs when an actor who provides benefits to another is subsequently helped by a third party (he helps me because I helped you). Either type could form the basis of generalized exchange systems but they are based on very different mechanisms, with generalized reciprocity stemming from the gratitude that one experiences as a consequence of receiving help and indirect reciprocity based on the prospect of maintaining a good, or ""prosocial"" reputation. <br/><br/>Importantly, almost all prior work has addressed these two processes independently. As a consequence, there is a lack answers to a range of fundamental questions: Which, if either process, is a stronger basis of cooperation in generalized exchange systems? How does each type of structure promote (or undermine) prosocial motivations of actors embedded within them? How does each type of structure impact trust towards - and cooperation with - those within the generalized exchange system versus those outside the system, i.e., strangers? And how do the processes combine to impact prosociality and solidarity in the real world? These questions are of great societal importance (as they focus on prosociality both with ""neighbors"" and strangers) and of broad relevance (with potential applications from the smallest groups to global communities). Insights from the research could therefore yield actionable prescriptions for increasing prosociality as well as facilitating integration, cohesion, and solidarity among members of an increasingly differentiated population. <br/><br/>The research seeks to accomplish five broad research objectives: i) Outline arguments and two controlled experiments designed to test the relative and interactive power of generalized and indirect reciprocity for supporting cooperation in generalized exchange systems, ii) Outline arguments and an experimental test of the relative power of generalized versus indirect reciprocity systems in promoting prosocial motivations and behaviors towards strangers, i.e., towards those outside of the generalized exchange system, iii) Use controlled laboratory experiments and agent-based models to establish that, in contrast to prior work that has viewed generalized and indirect reciprocity as separate systems, the two processes are more accurately (and fruitfully) viewed as parts of an integrated system, iv) Examine how different social network structures affect prosocial behaviors in generalized exchange systems, and v) Test predictions from our arguments with a large dataset on the flow of aid between nation-states. Thus, the overarching goal of this research is to tackle a fundamental research problem, of broad interdisciplinary importance, using multiple methods, including laboratory experiments, agent-based models, and macro-level data on international aid.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Embeddedness of Indirect and Generalized Reciprocity",
"1626023","Collaborative Research: The Embeddedness of Indirect and Generalized Reciprocity","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2016","9/1/2016","David Melamed","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$95,671.00 ","","melamed.9@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1626023<br/>David Melamed<br/>Ohio State University<br/><br/>SES-1626056<br/>Brent Simpson<br/>University of South Carolina Columbia<br/><br/>Generalized exchange systems are those where material, social, or other forms of support flow unilaterally between three or more actors (individuals, organizations, and nations). Researchers have noted that generalized exchange systems are the basis for the evolution of human morality and widespread social solidarity. This is because, unlike direct exchange relationships, which tend to set those involved apart from a broader group or network, generalized exchange embeds actors in a much larger structure of relations. <br/><br/>Prior research has identified two primary bases for generalized exchange systems: Generalized reciprocity occurs when an actor who receives benefits or help ""pays it forward"" by helping a third party (you help her because I helped you) while indirect reciprocity occurs when an actor who provides benefits to another is subsequently helped by a third party (he helps me because I helped you). Either type could form the basis of generalized exchange systems but they are based on very different mechanisms, with generalized reciprocity stemming from the gratitude that one experiences as a consequence of receiving help and indirect reciprocity based on the prospect of maintaining a good, or ""prosocial"" reputation. <br/><br/>Importantly, almost all prior work has addressed these two processes independently. As a consequence, there is a lack answers to a range of fundamental questions: Which, if either process, is a stronger basis of cooperation in generalized exchange systems? How does each type of structure promote (or undermine) prosocial motivations of actors embedded within them? How does each type of structure impact trust towards - and cooperation with - those within the generalized exchange system versus those outside the system, i.e., strangers? And how do the processes combine to impact prosociality and solidarity in the real world? These questions are of great societal importance (as they focus on prosociality both with ""neighbors"" and strangers) and of broad relevance (with potential applications from the smallest groups to global communities). Insights from the research could therefore yield actionable prescriptions for increasing prosociality as well as facilitating integration, cohesion, and solidarity among members of an increasingly differentiated population. <br/><br/>The research seeks to accomplish five broad research objectives: i) Outline arguments and two controlled experiments designed to test the relative and interactive power of generalized and indirect reciprocity for supporting cooperation in generalized exchange systems, ii) Outline arguments and an experimental test of the relative power of generalized versus indirect reciprocity systems in promoting prosocial motivations and behaviors towards strangers, i.e., towards those outside of the generalized exchange system, iii) Use controlled laboratory experiments and agent-based models to establish that, in contrast to prior work that has viewed generalized and indirect reciprocity as separate systems, the two processes are more accurately (and fruitfully) viewed as parts of an integrated system, iv) Examine how different social network structures affect prosocial behaviors in generalized exchange systems, and v) Test predictions from our arguments with a large dataset on the flow of aid between nation-states. Thus, the overarching goal of this research is to tackle a fundamental research problem, of broad interdisciplinary importance, using multiple methods, including laboratory experiments, agent-based models, and macro-level data on international aid.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Embeddedness of Indirect and Generalized Reciprocity",
"1535664","Mixed-Status Families and Citizenship in the Contemporary Migration Experience","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY","9/15/2015","8/12/2015","Heide Castaneda","FL","University of South Florida","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2017","$143,855.00 ","","hcastaneda@usf.edu","3702 Spectrum Blvd.","Tampa","FL","3702 Spectrum Blvd., Tampa, FL","336129446","8139742897","SBE","1331, 1372, 1390","9179","$0.00 ","There are 2.3 million mixed-status families in the US, in which the uncertain legal status of some members influences opportunities and resources for all, including permanent residents and US citizens. A focus on individuals in US law and policy largely overlooks cumulative ripple effects on families, although individuals are always embedded within these complex social units. This study examines how mixed-status families experience specific policies related to health care and education, and seeks to understand how they collectively navigate opportunities and obstacles. It is necessary to understand the experiences of these families -- including and especially the impacts on some 4.5 million US citizen children -- in order to ensure equitable application of policy and to reduce disparities. <br/><br/>Using mixed-status families as a primary unit of analysis, this project advances scholarship on how juridical categories shape socialization to identities within the domestic sphere as well as in relation to public institutions such as health care and education. This ethnographic study examines how families actively negotiate institutions by employing a longitudinal, three-year design. Data from multiple members of 40 mixed-status families will be examined across two points in time. This will be contextualized through participant observation and interviews with 50 service providers and community experts. This study seeks to transform theories of migration and law by shifting the focus from individuals to families, better revealing social impacts and how difference are shaped at the family level. Bridging experiences at the micro-familial with those at the policy level will result in advances for understanding the contemporary migration experience and theoretical concerns in the social science of law.","crimson_battery","Mixed-Status Families and Citizenship in the Contemporary Migration Experience",
"1524522","Replicating Experimental Studies: Moving Beyond Undergraduate Student Samples","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2015","7/9/2015","Jeffrey Lucas","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$95,705.00 ","","jlucas2@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","Social scientists have in recent years become increasingly concerned about the extent to which results of experimental studies can be replicated. Although replication is a hallmark of science, social scientists devote relatively little time and attention to replication efforts. Additionally, in the cases when social scientists do attempt strict methodological replications of experimental studies, it is nearly always a case of replicating studies carried out with undergraduate students as participants with studies that have new samples of undergraduate students. Experimentalists rarely pursue methodological replications with samples not comprised of undergraduates. The investigator will attempt to replicate findings in three widely cited experimental studies using a sample of older adults, but also makes new predictions for each study.<br/><br/>This research proposes to replicate three important experimental studies from social psychology, each with a focus on gender norms and/or gendered behavior. The replications will be completed with a sample of older adults in an age-restricted retirement community as participants. One of the studies to be replicated is Shelley Correll et al.'s (2007) study on the motherhood penalty, which found that undergraduate students evaluated mothers who were job candidates more negatively than women without children, whereas they evaluated fathers more positively than men without children. A second is Brent Simpson?s (2003) paper which found that women responded relatively more to fear, and men relatively more to greed, when participating in a social dilemma. The third is Rob Willer et al.'s (2013) paper which found that men who had their masculinity threated responded with extreme displays of masculinity, whereas women who had their femininity threatened did not respond with femininity displays. There are a number of reasons to expect that older adults might behave differently in these studies than did college students, although we expect them to behave in some of the same ways (e.g., penalizing mothers relative to non-mothers in the labor market) as well. The results of the studies should advance science in fundamental ways, pursuing an activity that is frequently acknowledged as fundamental to the advancement of science but rarely pursued. Additionally, each replication has the capacity to produce results that are of theoretical and intellectual interest beyond simply determining whether the original results hold in a new sample. The proposed studies also have a significant training component, leading to intensive training in research methods in an innovative setting for three graduate students.","crimson_battery","Replicating Experimental Studies: Moving Beyond Undergraduate Student Samples",
"1624943","Testing the Impact of Race on Jury Evaluations of Informants","SES","SOCIOLOGY, SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","8/15/2016","8/23/2016","Mona Lynch","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","7/31/2018","$295,791.00 ","","lynchm@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1331, 1332, 1372","","$0.00 ","An important body of legal scholarship has emerged about the justice risks associated with the use of informants, who provide information to law enforcement officials about criminal activity usually in exchange for leniency consideration or dismissal on a pending criminal charge. Despite the increasing concern, there has been very little empirical research on the use of informants as witnesses. This study builds on the nascent line of research about informant testimony by examining whether and how the race of the informant, as well as the race of the defendant, impacts laypersons' assessments of credibility, culpability, and blame-worthiness in a simulated jury setting. By measuring both individual-level and group-level cognition and action, the project tests how racism emerges and is elaborated in group-level judgment contexts, and how the race of case actors interacts with jurors' racial identity. Within that, the study will examine both the cognitive and more emotionally-based responses to informant testimony. The proposed research has the potential to generate timely and important broader impacts. It will inform policy regarding the use of informants and whether the documented problems with laypersons' assessments of informant evidence are exacerbated by the racial identify of those witness. As such, it has the potential to address real-word procedural issues that come from heavy reliance upon informants in drug case prosecutions. The broader impacts also include training and education of graduate and undergraduate students. <br/><br/>The study uses an experimental design, in which the race of defendant (African-American or white) and race of informant witness (African-American or white) is varied, creating four versions of an audio-visual presentation of a federal drug conspiracy trial that includes testimony by an informant. Jury-eligible, non-student adult participants will be recruited and assigned to 140 small group ""juries."" Each jury group will view one of the four versions of the trial and will then deliberate to determine a verdict. Those deliberations will be recorded to analyze the group decision-making process. After the verdict is rendered, participants will individually complete a comprehensive set of measures regarding decision-making processes, perceptions, and attitudes. The main research questions to be answered in this study are: 1) Is an African-American defendant more likely to be found guilty than a white defendant? 2) Are the credibility ratings for a white informant higher than for an African-American informant? 3) Is the credibility ""threshold"" for conviction lower for an African-American defendant than for a white defendant, as a function of differential empathy? 4) Will the group deliberation process amplify racial bias, as has been demonstrated in previous research on death penalty decision-making? And 5) Will the effects of informant/defendant race be moderated by juror race and gender?","crimson_battery","Testing the Impact of Race on Jury Evaluations of Informants",
"1230081","Diagnosis and Reduction of Bias in Respondent-driven Sampling","SES","SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, ","9/15/2012","8/22/2012","Krista Gile","MA","University of Massachusetts Amherst","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","8/31/2017","$199,938.00 ","","gile@math.umass.edu","Research Administration Building","AMHERST","MA","Research Administration Building, AMHERST, MA","10039242","4135450698","SBE","1331, 1333, L175","","$0.00 ","Respondent-Driven Sampling (RDS) is a type of link-tracing network sampling used to study hard-to-reach human populations. Beginning with a convenience sample, respondents are given uniquely identified coupons to distribute to other population members, making them eligible for enrollment. This is effective at collecting large diverse samples from many hard-to-reach populations. Despite often highly-effective sampling, statistical inference from RDS data is under-developed. Estimates are based on strong assumptions allowing the data to be treated as a probability sample. This project develops methodology for RDS in three ways: (1) Identifying sources of bias and elevated variance in real populations; (2) Extending the network model-assisted inferential framework to address additional sources of bias; and (3) Expanding the network model-assisted framework to arbitrarily large populations. In (1), the research will use simulated RDS samples from fully-observed network data to both explore features of real-world network structures that induce bias or elevated variance in estimates, and also to calibrate diagnostics of such features based on sampled data. Parts (2) and (3) involve advances of the network model-assisted estimator for RDS data. This is the most flexible estimator currently available for RDS data, but is quite computationally burdensome. In (2), the project will extend the existing network model-assisted estimator to adjust for additional features of the network and sampling process. In (3), the project will develop a new variant of this estimator that is more computationally practical in large populations.<br/><br/>Hard-to-reach populations are often at the low end of disparities in wealth, opportunity, and acceptance and at higher risk for negative social and health outcomes. These populations couple reduced social and health opportunities with a difficulty in collecting traditional probability samples. Thus, RDS is widely used and is of special interest to social and behavioral scientists as well as public health officials. This project will allow practitioners to confidently use RDS data in a wider variety of contexts. Specifically, researchers will (a) better understand which network and sampling conditions might induce bias into their estimators and have better tools to find evidence of these features in their samples, (b) have more options for adjusting their estimators to account for non-ideal network and sampling conditions, and (c) be able to compute the resulting estimators with greater efficiency, making the methods practical even in cases of very large target populations. The project is supported by the Methodology, Measurement, and Statistics Program and a consortium of federal statistical agencies as part of a joint activity to support research on survey and statistical methodology.","crimson_battery","Diagnosis and Reduction of Bias in Respondent-driven Sampling",
"1628813","Dynamics of High School Course Enrollment","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2016","8/18/2016","Samuel Lucas","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","8/31/2017","$150,000.00 ","","lucas@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","Dynamics of High School Course Enrollment<br/><br/>Abstract<br/>This project will investigate the dynamics of high school course enrollment in order to understand some of the mechanisms that contribute to long-term inequality in society. High schools offer courses of different levels of rigor. In some schools students, with their parents' blessing, are free to select the level of rigor of their courses for study, while in others student choice plays a limited role. Yet, in the former schools, some students and parents may be unaware of how great the differences are among courses, and thus may select courses that do not fully build on the students' potential. The cost of such under-placement may last long after high school is over, delaying or even denying the individual as well as the nation the contributions the student might ultimately have made. Such costs may be especially acute in the sciences, and may play a role in gender inequality in the pursuit of science. Further, racial/ethnic differences may be traceable, in part, to differences in the information parents and students may have about courses. Studying the course enrollment process of disparate schools can help to identify practices that can support each student in selecting the most rigorous courses for which the student is qualified. Findings of such practices can then be shared with school districts and school-site actors via journals and presentations.<br/><br/>Analysts have studied course enrollment before, but schools have changed appreciably since such studies were completed. While completing a comprehensive, systematic review of existing evidence, the project will also gather empirical data on the course enrollment process. Researchers will analyze materials used to convey the course enrollment process to students and parents to discover the range of official course enrollment procedures. At the same time, parents of students attending diverse schools will be recruited for several group interviews (focus groups) in which parents can reflect upon and report on their and their child's experience of the course selection process. Further, researchers will compare the official course enrollment process and parents' report of their experiences in order to investigate whether some kinds of materials and processes are more likely to help parents help their children navigate the course selection process.","crimson_battery","Dynamics of High School Course Enrollment",
"1560294","Partial Support for the Core Activities of the Committee on National Statistics","SES","SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","8/1/2016","8/16/2016","Constance Citro","DC","National Academy of Sciences","Continuing grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","7/31/2021","$200,000.00 ","Brian Harris-Kojetin","ccitro@nas.edu","500 FIFTH STREET NW","Washington","DC","500 FIFTH STREET NW, Washington, DC","200012721","2023342254","SBE","1331, 1333","","$0.00 ","Relevant, objective, high-quality, timely, and accessible information produced by federal statistical agencies is critical for informing decisions by policy makers for federal, state, and local governments as well as by private businesses and households. This project will provide partial support for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine Committee on National Statistics (CNSTAT). The Committee was established as a standing committee in 1972 and works to improve the statistical methods and measures produced by the diverse array of statistical agencies spread across the federal government and to help those agencies collaborate with each other to serve the public good. CNSTAT also contributes to improving the data that are available for economic and social science research applied to important national needs, such as understanding the economy, technology and innovation, public health, education, welfare, and other areas. CNSTAT conducts much of its work through consensus studies carried out by panels of volunteer experts, which review specific statistical programs and measures. It also conducts workshops and public seminars for the benefit of the statistical and research community and updates every 4 years a volume titled ""Principles and Practices for a Federal Statistical Agency,"" which helps protect the objectivity and credibility of federal statistics.<br/><br/>Interacting with the federal statistical and research agencies and the social and economic sciences research community, CNSTAT will identify priority topics for study involving federal statistics and statistical methods. For example, CNSTAT studies will help the Census Bureau design an accurate and cost-effective 2020 census and improve other nationally important surveys of households and businesses; help the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics at NSF improve surveys of the science and engineering workforce and measures of innovation; and help the Department of Health and Human Services improve data on the elderly and disadvantaged people. An important ongoing initiative is to foster standards and methods for using multiple data sources to improve federal statistics by drawing on data from administrative records and from selected Internet and other non-traditional data sources in addition to the surveys currently used. The use of multiple data sources is imperative to hold down costs of federal statistical programs, improve data quality and timeliness, and maintain relevance and credibility in an era in which people are less likely to respond to surveys and there are competing statistics from non-government sources.","crimson_atom","Partial Support for the Core Activities of the Committee on National Statistics",
"1647505","Qualitative Research Ethics in the Big-Data Era","SES","SOCIOLOGY, CROSS-DIRECTORATE ACTIV PROGR, ","7/15/2016","8/8/2016","Leland Glenna","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","6/30/2017","$49,692.00 ","Cynthia Hinrichs, Carolyn Sachs, Robert Chiles","llg13@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331, 1397, 019y","040Z, 7556","$0.00 ","WORKSHOP: Qualitative Research Ethics in the Big-Data Era<br/><br/>This workshop will be a one-day workshop on the ethics of qualitative research in the era of big data to identify what research has been done on this topic, and where additional research is needed. The<br/>workshop will yield a set of guidelines from existing research to guide university institutional review boards, research funding organizations, and data aggregating organizations. The workshop will bring together invited participants from academic institutions, international aid and research organizations and data aggregating organizations. The workshop will facilitate an international discussion about necessary guidelines and organizations dedicated to promoting responsible conduct of science for qualitative research and big data.<br/><br/>The workshop will contribute to improved understanding of issues arising from ethical management of big qualitative datasets in academia and in other national and international institutions that finance and conduct qualitative research. The workshop will advance a set of recommendations and guidelines for accountable management of qualitative data, providing a strategic resource for qualitative research managers worldwide. It will also buttress continued production of robust evidence and in-depth knowledge that contextual qualitative research strategies are designed to provide. The workshop will generate at least three outputs: (1) a white paper on the challenging issues and guidelines, (2) a special issue journal and (3) teaching resources for qualitative researchers.","crimson_battery","Qualitative Research Ethics in the Big-Data Era",
"1357452","International Integrated Microdata Series","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, SBE Data Surveys & Studies","9/1/2014","8/11/2016","Steven Ruggles","MN","University of Minnesota-Twin Cities","Continuing grant","Patricia White","8/31/2019","$4,534,836.00 ","Robert McCaa, Ragui Assaad, Deborah Levison, Ann Meier","ruggles@umn.edu","200 OAK ST SE","Minneapolis","MN","200 OAK ST SE, Minneapolis, MN","554552070","6126245599","SBE","1320, 1331, 1333, 1352, 7238","7238, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1357452<br/>Steven Ruggles<br/>Ragui A. Assaad<br/>Deborah Levison<br/>Robert E. McCaa<br/>Anne Meier<br/>University of Minnesota<br/><br/>The Integrated Public Use Microdata Series (IPUMS) project is creating fundamental infrastructure for scientific research, education, and policy-making. The collaborators have created the world's largest population database, with information describing 545 million persons drawn from 238 censuses and surveys of 74 countries between 1960 and 2011. This proposal continues funding to build, enrich, and freely disseminate a microdata resource of unprecedented scale and scope. This next project phase expands the coverage of the database, preserves it for future generations, and disseminates the data to users around the world. This project focuses on five major activities: (1) Data acquisition and long-run preservation; (2) Data cleaning and processing; (3) Creating comprehensive documentation to guide users on the meaning of census and survey responses and their comparability across time and space; (4) Improving the web-based dissemination and analysis system and conducting an expanded program of education and dissemination activities; and 5) Developing with national statistical agencies a secure dissemination system for data that pose disclosure risks, making a vast new trove of big data available. <br/><br/>IPUMS is critical scientific infrastructure. The extraordinary growth and redistribution of population and economic resources are reshaping the planet. To meet the challenges created by rapid demographic, economic, and environmental change, researchers must have full and open access to the best possible information. Richly detailed population data spanning the globe over multiple decades are indispensable for creating the next generation of social science and environmental models. IPUMS data have already stimulated new research that transcends national boundaries and static interpretation. The expansion, improvement, and support of the database are directly relevant to the central mission of the NSF to promote the progress of science. The next project phase will leverage the NSF's previous investments and make IPUMS an even more powerful resource for understanding the causes and consequences of the sweeping transformations of the human population. This infrastructure will multiply the quality, quantity, accessibility, and interoperability of information about the changing population, creating a transnational resource of unprecedented power for understanding human society on a global scale. By disseminating big microdata, this project will enhance scientific understanding of critical policy-related issues such as population aging, international migration, climate change, and the effects of government programs on economic development and well-being. The project will promote teaching through: (1) online data analysis and sharing of curricular materials for teaching; (2) conducting training workshops and developing online instructional modules on data usage; and (3) employing a diverse group of graduate and undergraduate research assistants, including members of underrepresented groups, who will develop valuable new skills in a stimulating interdisciplinary en","crimson_atom","International Integrated Microdata Series",
"1257138","Trusting Strangers in the Sharing Economy","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY, GSS-ST&S","9/15/2013","8/10/2016","David Grusky","CA","Stanford University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$299,068.00 ","Karen Cook","grusky@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","1320, 1331, 8036","","$0.00 ","SES-1257138<br/>Paolo Parigi<br/>Karen Cook<br/>Stanford University<br/><br/>This project investigates whether individuals can be made more trusting of others through the use of technology. The investigators will recruit participants from on-line companies operating in the sharing economy, i.e., from websites where users share tools, hospitality, pet sitting, and car rides. The broad research hypothesis is that trusting strangers on-line makes individuals more trusting in general and that there are two key mechanisms for developing trust online: (1) the reputation systems that these websites develop to facilitate interactions, and (2) the individual social networks that create communities of users with similar levels of trust. The assumption on which this research rests is that trust can be engineered, i.e., that the amount of interpersonal trust we have toward others is not determined exclusively by cultural factors, societal norms or family upbringing.<br/><br/>The investigators will conduct behavioral experiments and collect data on the participants in the study. The experiments will capture whether repeated, on-line interactions with strangers produce behavioral changes in the lives of the participants. Participants will be randomly assigned to two conditions and followed over time. In one condition, they will be playing against a simulated agent that will pose as a generic user, while in the other condition they will play against a simulated agent that will pose as a website member. By measuring differences in how participants play these games in the two conditions we will be able to assess changes in the evolution of their levels of trust toward others. A portion of the subjects recruited for these experiments will come from outside the United States. The study will be conducted in two countries, Romania and the Netherlands, because they represent societies with low and high levels of generalized trust, respectively. This will enable cross-cultural comparisons and an examination whether the mechanisms identified operate similarly under different cultural conditions, particularly in high and low trust societies. In addition to the behavioral experiments, the researchers will also analyze a number of sharing economy web-based communities.<br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/><br/>The research contributes to the sparse scholarly research to date on the mechanisms used to build trust where trust might not otherwise emerge because of weak or corrupt institutions or the prevalence of conditions that are not conducive to fostering trustworthy behavior. In general, this is also a problem for Internet-mediated interactions that must be resolved to gain the confidence of those who use this medium for exchanges or other forms of interaction. Furthermore, understanding the fundamental nature of these processes will be beneficial not only to society but also to those mandated to protect individuals from fraud and harm, as well as to those who hope to benefit in various ways from the capacity to connect people from very different walks of life and cultures. Research findings will contribute to a better understanding of whether such networks foster greater cultural understanding or a variety of other positive aims. Knowing how these types of network are formed, work, maintained and grow is very important for a well-functioning society, a growing economy, and effective governance.","crimson_battery","Trusting Strangers in the Sharing Economy",
"1528559","Collaborative Research: School Segregation and Resegregation: Using Case Studies and Public Polls to Understand Citizen Attitudes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Toby Parcel","NC","North Carolina State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$287,330.00 ","","toby_parcel@ncsu.edu","CAMPUS BOX 7514","RALEIGH","NC","CAMPUS BOX 7514, RALEIGH, NC","276957514","9195152444","SBE","1331","8050, 9179","$0.00 ","Why are some school districts able to sustain school desegregation while others are not? Although social scientists have been active in studying the effects of school racial composition on student achievement, relatively neglected is the inclusion of variation among districts in the social factors that lead to school district segregation itself. Using five case studies and public opinion polls, the research team will study the relationship between citizen characteristics and their attitudes and values supporting (or failing to support) school desegregation. This study increases the value of five strategically chosen case studies including those of Wake County, NC (Raleigh); Davidson County, TN (Nashville); Jefferson County, KY (Louisville); Charlotte-Mecklenburg, NC and Rock Hill, SC by fielding an opinion poll in each location, where the polls contain mostly common questions across sites. These polls will reveal similarities and differences in adult attitudes that track to differences in how long these districts have sustained desegregated schools. Study findings have implications for other school districts beyond the five studied here in terms of formulating policy that will better support socioeconomic mixing of students, which enhances diversity by promoting educational attainment and upward mobility in society, especially for at-risk students. <br/><br/>Some school districts sustain desegregation over many years while others do not. Existing research is largely based on case studies. Case studies have limited external validity and are often heterogeneous in approach because researchers frame questions and invoke theory differently. The data obtained from in-depth interviews, participant observation, and document analyses are rarely triangulated with data from theoretically-driven surveys of the school district's adult population. These attitudes and values play an important part in explaining districts' current school assignment policies and inform future policies as well. This study addresses gaps in existing social science literature on desegregation by using a common theoretical perspective and fielding a largely common questionnaire via Interactive Voice Response, supplemented by cell phone samples, across five school districts. The research will produce poll data on a minimum of 5000 adult respondents. Analysis will (1) embed each poll within the existing qualitative data on each case; and (2) use the poll data to analyze both commonalities and differences in values and attitudes across sites.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: School Segregation and Resegregation: Using Case Studies and Public Polls to Understand Citizen Attitudes",
"1357151","The Economic Effects of Caring for Adult Family Members","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2014","7/31/2014","Rebecca Glauber","NH","University of New Hampshire","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$102,553.00 ","","rebecca.glauber@unh.edu","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107","Durham","NH","51 COLLEGE RD SERVICE BLDG 107, Durham, NH","38243585","6038622172","SBE","1331","9150, 9251","$0.00 ","This project explores the effects of caring for adult family members on caregivers' economic well-being. In the US, nearly one in four people care for an adult family member, partner, or friend, and the number is expected to rise. Research has yielded a wealth of information on the health outcomes of providing care, but we know less about the economic ramifications of providing care.<br/><br/>Drawing on nationally-representative, longitudinal data from the Health and Retirement Study, the project answers the following questions: How does caring for an elderly family member - a spouse or elderly parent - affect caregivers' employment decisions, earnings, savings, and wealth? Do the effects differ for men and women, and what are the sources of such differences? Do these different experiences have different effects on women's and men's employment decisions and economic outcomes? Do the effects differ by socioeconomic status? Do those with fewer resources, for example, take more time off from work and pay larger earnings penalties? There are a range of possible responses to caregiving dilemmas. This project explores these choices and their economic ramifications.<br/><br/>The findings from this project enhance our understanding work, family, and aging. Insights gained through this project could aid in understanding how to provide support for caregivers and their care recipients. The project also includes graduate and undergraduate students in all phases of the research, which helps to produce the next generation of scientists and citizens who can meet the needs of our 21st century aging society.","crimson_battery","The Economic Effects of Caring for Adult Family Members",
"1322568","Collaborative Research: Accounting for the Emergence, Persistence, and Media Coverage of Social Action Organizations","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2013","8/28/2013","John McCarthy","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$168,273.00 ","","jxm516@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1321802<br/>Patrick Rafail<br/>Tulane University<br/><br/>SES-1322568<br/>John McCarthy<br/>University of Southern California<br/><br/>In this project we aim to complete the collection of a six year time series of social action mobilization occurring between 2009 and 2014. Building on the results from previous research, we propose to address three important theoretical questions: The first aims to understand what social structural variation (e.g. income inequality, rates of unemployment) across U.S. states and local communities increases the likelihood that social action will occur and recur. The second asks what community contexts facilitate the founding of social action organization as well as the factors influencing the organizational linkages and survival of these groups over time. Third, we ask which factors influence the intensity, tone, and content of newspaper coverage of such groups.<br/><br/>To address these questions, we will assemble a database of social action events as well as organizational foundings, other local activities such as meetings or demonstrations, and organization survival by combining multiple sources of data including internet listings, systematic searches of 432 local newspapers, and content coding of newspaper stories of covered events. We will then geographically situate each event and organization, which will be linked to a larger database of social structural indicators, information on election cycle outcomes, and newspaper characteristics. Statistical approaches to modeling the processes will include hierarchical regression, survival analysis, web scraping, text mining, and natural language processing.<br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/>The proposed project has enormous potential for having broader impact in several ways. First, it will provide a comprehensive, systematic analysis of social action groups. Second, we will create a public use data set to allow diverse additional investigations of the causes and consequences of social action group mobilization from a wide variety of perspectives beyond our own. And, finally, we will be able to chronicle these social movements from infancy into maturity as well as signs of their decline.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Accounting for the Emergence, Persistence, and Media Coverage of Social Action Organizations",
"1529061","Explaining Low Crime Rates in Immigrant Communities","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2015","7/6/2015","Charis Kubrin","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$268,368.00 ","John Hipp, Deva Ramanan","ckubrin@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","The literature has produced several noteworthy findings on the relationship between immigration and crime. One of the most robust findings is: areas, and especially neighborhoods, with greater concentrations of immigrants have lower rates of crime. Yet important areas of inquiry remain. For example, extant research lumps all immigrants together and neglects important differences across groups. Moreover, theories on the connection between crime and immigration have not been sufficiently empirically evaluated, thus there is not a clear understanding about why immigrant communities are some of the safest places around. Despite a rapidly expanding cross-sectional literature, research examining the longitudinal immigration-crime nexus across areas has been scarce, making it a challenge to determine the proper causal ordering between crime and immigration. The goal of the proposed project in light of the research evidence which finds that immigrant concentration typically reduces levels of neighborhood crime is to better understanding why this occurs. <br/><br/>The research team examines the immigration-crime nexus in neighborhoods across the Southern California metropolitan region over a decade (2000-2010). Using data from a variety of sources, the investigators' analyses, first, will unpack immigration in order to capture the rich diversity that exists, including grouping immigrants by similar racial/ethnic categories, by areas or regions of the world they emigrate from, and by where immigrants co-locate once in the U.S. The investigators will compare these approaches with the typical approach employed in studies examining just the percent foreign born. Second, to begin to better understand why immigrant communities are some of the safest places around, they empirically evaluate several competing theoretical explanations hypothesized to account for lower crime rates in immigrant neighborhoods. And finally, in contrast to much of the extant literature, the research team takes a dynamic approach to the study of crime and immigration by examining changes in neighborhoods across the cities in the Southern California region.","crimson_battery","Explaining Low Crime Rates in Immigrant Communities",
"1627693","The Boston Reentry Study: Analysis and Preparation of Public Use Data","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2016","8/8/2016","Bruce Western","MA","Harvard University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2018","$161,346.00 ","","western@wjh.harvard.edu","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","1033 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21385366","6174955501","SBE","1331","9251","$0.00 ","NSF 1627693<br/>Bruce Western <br/>Harvard University<br/><br/>In an era of historically high US incarceration rates, the transition from prison to the community of released prisoners has had far-reaching effects on the population and poverty dynamics of neighborhoods of concentrated disadvantage. Despite a large body of research studying the effects of incarceration, relatively few studies have analyzed in detail the process of leaving prison and entering a community. In this context, this project extends prior research by offering innovative new analyses of data and the creation of publicly available data files from the Boston Reentry Study (BRS), a longitudinal study of 122 Massachusetts state prisoners newly-released to the Boston area that yielded an unparalleled response rate of 94 percent through 4 waves of follow-up in the year after prison release. The current project will thus provide a unique data set, including rich quantitative and qualitative information for the analysis of community return for a sample of newly-released prisoners under contemporary conditions of mass incarceration. The current project---including new analysis and data dissemination---will greatly expand the scope of the study's influence by informing policy debates on programs for transitional employment after prison, social supports for families that do much of the caring work immediately after incarceration, and for recidivism reduction, identifying key vulnerabilities in the year after prison release. The research will also play an important role in the academic development of students with interests in poverty and incarceration by involving them in the analysis of data and preparation of papers. <br/><br/>The current project will broaden understanding of the connection of a highly marginal population to mainstream social institutions, allowing in particular new analyses of family relationships, employment, and recidivism. The project comprises two main parts. First, new data analysis will capitalize on a variety of unique features of the BRS data. Income data are available monthly and include measures of wages, public assistance, support from families and illegal earnings. Data on families and children includes all sources of family support including the parents of released prisoners, and all children, allowing a complete mapping of multiple partner fertility. The analysis of recidivism will combine quantitative criminal record information with qualitative accounts including re-incarceration interviews yielding a new understanding of the social process of returning to custody, particularly for those who are relapsing to addiction or violating the conditions of community supervision. Second, archival work on the BRS will involve the preparation of a public-use data set, restricted-use data files including criminal records and other sensitive data, and qualitative materials including interview transcripts or audio tapes. The dissemination of these data will allow a wide variety of analyses of the process of social integration after incarceration, will promote mixed methods research that combines statistical analysis with the interpretative analysis of recorded and transcribed interviews and will contribute a unique public good to the community of scholars working on the problems of incarceration and poverty.","crimson_battery","The Boston Reentry Study: Analysis and Preparation of Public Use Data",
"1524761","Collaborative Research: The Organizational Production of Earnings Inequalities","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2015","7/20/2015","Andrew Penner","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$80,538.00 ","","penner@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1528294<br/>Donald Tomaskovic-Devey<br/>University of Massachusetts Amherst<br/><br/>SES-1524787 <br/>Dustin Avent-Holt<br/>University of California-Irvine<br/><br/>SES-1524761<br/>Andrew Penner<br/>Georgia Regents University<br/><br/>Rising income inequality is a widespread problem in high income countries. While the broad trajectories of national income and wealth inequalities are apparent, little is known about the workplace and institutional dynamics that produce these disturbing trends. This project investigates the dynamics of workplace earnings distributions, a major component of the overall income distribution. The researchers will take advantage of available administrative data on nearly all private sector workplaces and their employees for six countries over fifteen years to examine workplace level inequality levels and trends. The research centers on two central questions: What factors drive overall income inequality in workplaces? How do workplaces exacerbate or mitigate the impact of individual distinctions, such as education level, gender or immigrant status? The unique comparative population level data design allows the research team to address these two questions in both cross- and sub-national temporal contexts, asking: How do inequality generating mechanisms vary as a function of institutional context? Policy debates about inequality primarily focus on government redistribution at the national level, often ignoring that income distributions have become more unequal because of workplace compensation shifts.<br/><br/> The study brings workplaces into the center of the analysis of national inequality levels and trajectories. Current policy discussions often ignore the role of national institutions and workplace practices in encouraging or discouraging inequality outcomes. Building on Relational Inequality Theory the project examines the generic social mechanisms that produce both levels and distributions of organizational incomes and the degree to which they are moderated by institutional context. Combining Linked Employer-Employee Panel (LEEP) data with local institutional knowledge the research analyses data on virtually all employees linked to all employers in the private sector for six countries with high quality LEEP data: Germany, France, Sweden, Norway, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, from circa 2000 to the present. This study helps uncover the potential for interventions via educational investments, equal opportunity enforcement, wage floors and ceilings, and other institutional interventions that influence organizational variation in inequalities. Better understanding and documenting why some firms produce less inequality than others will provide a powerful counter-narrative to the idea that inequality is a naturally occurring process. Exploring organizational variation within and between countries will reveal the range of inequality regimes compatible with contemporary product and labor market constraints. Further, by linking gender and ethnic/citizenship inequalities to the structure of workplace inequality dynamics study results may reveal new paths for increasing social inclusion of historically marginalized groups.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Organizational Production of Earnings Inequalities",
"1528294","Collaborative Research: The Organizational Production of Earnings Inequalities","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2015","7/20/2015","Donald Tomaskovic-Devey","MA","University of Massachusetts Amherst","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$97,462.00 ","","Tomaskovic-Devey@soc.umass.edu","Research Administration Building","AMHERST","MA","Research Administration Building, AMHERST, MA","10039242","4135450698","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","SES-1528294<br/>Donald Tomaskovic-Devey<br/>University of Massachusetts Amherst<br/><br/>SES-1524787 <br/>Dustin Avent-Holt<br/>University of California-Irvine<br/><br/>SES-1524761<br/>Andrew Penner<br/>Georgia Regents University<br/><br/>Rising income inequality is a widespread problem in high income countries. While the broad trajectories of national income and wealth inequalities are apparent, little is known about the workplace and institutional dynamics that produce these disturbing trends. This project investigates the dynamics of workplace earnings distributions, a major component of the overall income distribution. The researchers will take advantage of available administrative data on nearly all private sector workplaces and their employees for six countries over fifteen years to examine workplace level inequality levels and trends. The research centers on two central questions: What factors drive overall income inequality in workplaces? How do workplaces exacerbate or mitigate the impact of individual distinctions, such as education level, gender or immigrant status? The unique comparative population level data design allows the research team to address these two questions in both cross- and sub-national temporal contexts, asking: How do inequality generating mechanisms vary as a function of institutional context? Policy debates about inequality primarily focus on government redistribution at the national level, often ignoring that income distributions have become more unequal because of workplace compensation shifts.<br/><br/>The study brings workplaces into the center of the analysis of national inequality levels and trajectories. Current policy discussions often ignore the role of national institutions and workplace practices in encouraging or discouraging inequality outcomes. Building on Relational Inequality Theory the project examines the generic social mechanisms that produce both levels and distributions of organizational incomes and the degree to which they are moderated by institutional context. Combining Linked Employer-Employee Panel (LEEP) data with local institutional knowledge the research analyses data on virtually all employees linked to all employers in the private sector for six countries with high quality LEEP data: Germany, France, Sweden, Norway, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, from circa 2000 to the present. This study helps uncover the potential for interventions via educational investments, equal opportunity enforcement, wage floors and ceilings, and other institutional interventions that influence organizational variation in inequalities. Better understanding and documenting why some firms produce less inequality than others will provide a powerful counter-narrative to the idea that inequality is a naturally occurring process. Exploring organizational variation within and between countries will reveal the range of inequality regimes compatible with contemporary product and labor market constraints. Further, by linking gender and ethnic/citizenship inequalities to the structure of workplace inequality dynamics study results may reveal new paths for increasing social inclusion of historically marginalized groups.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Organizational Production of Earnings Inequalities",
"1524787","Collaborative Research: The Organizational Production of Earnings Inequalities","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2015","7/20/2015","Dustin Avent-Holt","GA","AUGUSTA UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INSTITUTE, INC.","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$73,203.00 ","","daventho@gru.edu","1120 Fifteenth Street","Augusta","GA","1120 Fifteenth Street, Augusta, GA","309120004","7067212592","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1528294 <br/>Donald Tomaskovic-Devey <br/>University of Massachusetts Amherst <br/><br/>SES-1524787 <br/>Dustin Avent-Holt <br/>University of California-Irvine <br/><br/>SES-1524761 <br/>Andrew Penner <br/>Georgia Regents University <br/><br/>Rising income inequality is a widespread problem in high income countries. While the broad trajectories of national income and wealth inequalities are apparent, little is known about the workplace and institutional dynamics that produce these disturbing trends. This project investigates the dynamics of workplace earnings distributions, a major component of the overall income distribution. The researchers will take advantage of available administrative data on nearly all private sector workplaces and their employees for six countries over fifteen years to examine workplace level inequality levels and trends. The research centers on two central questions: What factors drive overall income inequality in workplaces? How do workplaces exacerbate or mitigate the impact of individual distinctions, such as education level, gender or immigrant status? The unique comparative population level data design allows the research team to address these two questions in both cross- and sub-national temporal contexts, asking: How do inequality generating mechanisms vary as a function of institutional context? Policy debates about inequality primarily focus on government redistribution at the national level, often ignoring that income distributions have become more unequal because of workplace compensation shifts. <br/><br/>The study brings workplaces into the center of the analysis of national inequality levels and trajectories. Current policy discussions often ignore the role of national institutions and workplace practices in encouraging or discouraging inequality outcomes. Building on Relational Inequality Theory the project examines the generic social mechanisms that produce both levels and distributions of organizational incomes and the degree to which they are moderated by institutional context. Combining Linked Employer-Employee Panel (LEEP) data with local institutional knowledge the research analyses data on virtually all employees linked to all employers in the private sector for six countries with high quality LEEP data: Germany, France, Sweden, Norway, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, from circa 2000 to the present. This study helps uncover the potential for interventions via educational investments, equal opportunity enforcement, wage floors and ceilings, and other institutional interventions that influence organizational variation in inequalities. Better understanding and documenting why some firms produce less inequality than others will provide a powerful counter-narrative to the idea that inequality is a naturally occurring process. Exploring organizational variation within and between countries will reveal the range of inequality regimes compatible with contemporary product and labor market constraints. Further, by linking gender and ethnic/citizenship inequalities to the structure of workplace inequality dynamics study results may reveal new paths for increasing social inclusion of historically marginalized groups.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Organizational Production of Earnings Inequalities",
"1426721","Police Professionalism and Changes in Police Protocols","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, Science of Organizations","7/1/2014","7/21/2015","Jennifer Earl","AZ","University of Arizona","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2017","$279,775.00 ","","jenniferearl@email.arizona.edu","888 N Euclid Ave","Tucson","AZ","888 N Euclid Ave, Tucson, AZ","857194824","5206266000","SBE","1331, 1372, 8031","0000, 9178, 9251, OTHR, SMET","$0.00 ","Prior research has examined organizational change in policing protocols when police are confronted with public protests. This research has found that police forces rapidly moved from endorsing a model for protest policing that relied on force to stop protests (referred to as ""escalated force"") to a new model that was based on de-escalating conflict through negotiation (referred to as ""negotiated management""). However, this existing work does not adequately: (1) explain how this new alternative developed, (2) examine whether other alternative models developed and competed for adherents; (3) analyze how factors internal to policing, such as police professionalism, affected this process of selection and change; and (4) problematize how organizations are affected by legal mandates. These are critical oversights because major organizational theories have long been able to explain the diffusion of new policies but have not been able to explain where those new policies come from. <br/><br/>This project draws on work from science and technology studies to develop a new perspective on how alternative innovations are created and compete for implementation. Specific hypotheses anticipate: multiple competing alternatives; that alternatives that were consistent with specific elements of police professionalism were more successful competitors; and that the courts did not directly dictate how police forces changed. Data are drawn from quantitative and qualitative content coding of historical police journals and other documents. Analyses map alternatives and their characteristics and track the prevalence of themes identified by the qualitative coding. Findings will advance scholastic understanding of how policing changes over time and how organizations innovate and change. Broader impacts include public distribution of research findings through radio and other media, undergraduate and graduate student training, and scientific gains in understanding organizational change.","crimson_battery","Police Professionalism and Changes in Police Protocols",
"1555698","Do Welfare Drug Offender Bans Affect Recidivism?","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","7/1/2016","4/14/2016","Naomi Sugie","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","6/30/2019","$137,994.00 ","","nsugie@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1331, 1372","","$0.00 ","The interrelationships between welfare and criminal justice systems have long been studied; however, their connections for structuring key outcomes among individuals, such as offending, have been rarely explored. This project tests whether government policies of agencies outside of criminal justice are consequential for shaping law-breaking behavior. To do so, it focuses on a potentially salient but often-overlooked welfare policy that may have critical consequences for criminal behavior. Specifically, the 1996 welfare reform policies included a provision to exclude individuals convicted of drug-related felonies from receiving cash assistance and food stamps for their lifetimes (Section 115 of Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996a). Nearly two decades later, it remains unclear how these policies impact criminal offending and recidivism among the individuals who no longer qualify. Have the policies decreased deviant behavior by promoting self-sufficiency from the government dole? Alternatively, have they increased offending by eliminating critical resources to people in financially constrained circumstances? To answer these questions, this project examines the effect of these bans for recidivism outcomes, including arrests, convictions, incarcerations, and time to recidivism. It also considers whether the bans have had differential impacts depending on the benefit program, demographic subgroups, local labor market conditions, crime types, and sentencing outcomes. With criminal justice agencies facing severe financial constraints, it is critical to understand whether welfare policies are exacerbating crime and increasing prison admissions among individuals with previous convictions. <br/><br/>Using administrative records from California, the project will employ a novel analytic method--regression discontinuity (RD) analysis--to estimate the causal impact of the bans. RD designs are considered ""quasi-experimental"" approaches that take advantage of random variation in a treatment variable to approximate pre- and post-test comparisons of experimental designs. In the case of drug-related felonies and public assistance bans, RD analysis methods address several issues that have hampered previous efforts to make causal claims about the effect of the exclusions. Using this method, the project will provide the strongest evidence to date about the impacts of the cash and food stamp bans for recidivism and will provide point estimates of cost-savings (or cost-expenditures) of the welfare policies given criminal justice consequences. In addition, the project will differentiate recidivism effects by benefit program and demographic subgroups, such as women and minorities. It will also examine whether local labor market conditions moderate the consequences of the bans for recidivism, and whether the exclusions impact certain types of criminal behavior, such as pecuniary-related crimes, or types of sentencing outcomes, such as incarceration.","crimson_battery","Do Welfare Drug Offender Bans Affect Recidivism?",
"1625730","Collaborative Research: Crime Risk and Police Notification","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2016","7/19/2016","Min Xie","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2018","$85,398.00 ","","mxie@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","SBE","1331, 1372","","$0.00 ","This project will examine three questions: (1) Is the risk of non-lethal criminal victimization among persons and households in the US significantly influenced by neighborhood immigrant concentration? (2) Is the likelihood of police notification among crime victims significantly influenced by neighborhood immigrant concentration? and (3) Do the effects of neighborhood immigrant concentration on victimization risk and police notification differ by individual race and ethnicity, and across counties that exhibit variability in immigration history, minority political incorporation, and the nature of policing? <br/><br/>These questions will be addressed by linking data on victimization and police notification from more than 600,000 household and 1 million person interviews from the 2007-2014 restricted-use NCVS to data from the American Community Survey and other sources. This project will advance understanding by: (1) offering the first nationwide analysis of the influence of neighborhood immigrant concentration on reporting crime to the police; (2) reevaluating the impact of neighborhood immigrant concentration on crime with data that include incidents both reported and unreported to the police; and (3) considering multiple measures of neighborhood immigrant concentration (the percentage foreign born, neighborhood spatial clustering or isolation of the foreign born, and foreign born concentration for Latinos and Asians).","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Crime Risk and Police Notification",
"1535563","Adolescent and Adult Lives of Children of Parents Returning From Prison","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, ","9/15/2015","8/4/2016","John Hagan","IL","American Bar Foundation","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2018","$375,081.00 ","Holly Foster","jhagan@abfn.org","750 North Lake Shore Drive","Chicago","IL","750 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, IL","606114403","3129886584","SBE","1331, 1372, O505","9178, 9251","$0.00 ","This research will investigate the impact of parents returning from prison on their children. Parents are incarcerated today at a rate more than four times higher than in the 1970s. However, since 2009 releases from prisons have become more numerous than admissions, marking the beginning of a new era of the return of imprisoned parents to their families and communities. This research will add survey questions about this process of parental return to the fifth wave of a unique nationally representative study that has tracked children of non-incarcerated and incarcerated parents since the rise of incarceration in the last quarter of the last century. The sample will allow analysis across all population groups, and for mothers and daughters as well as fathers and sons, and also for step-parents. The research will focus on the readjustment of children during adolescence and early adulthood to the return of their previously imprisoned parents, assessing whether and under what conditions this return is associated with positive and negative outcomes, for example, in educational attainment and successful transitions to work and adulthood more broadly. The research will capture at a crucial historical moment the consequences for children of an unprecedented return of parents from prison to their families and society. <br/><br/>The National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health [Add Health] that is the foundation of this research is based on a sample in which 14 percent of the children have a father and four percent have a mother who has been in jail or prison. These children will have been surveyed at five points in their lives, from their early teens to their early 30s. This detailed, repeated measurement will make it possible to closely study the age of onset, accumulation, and simultaneity in the effects of parental imprisonment in relation to, for example, the timing and sequences of school tracking and dropout decisions and work, marriage and parenting outcomes. This information on the adolescent and early adult child outcomes can then be considered more broadly in relation to the timing of parallel processes of change in family structures and justice system contacts. The research will use propensity scoring and fixed effects techniques to thoroughly assess causal inferences and threats posed by logically prior possibilities of parental selection into imprisonment and reentry. By adding parental incarceration histories to the nationally representative and historically unique Add Health data, this research will markedly expand opportunities to understand wide ranging processes and outcomes in child development from adolescence through early adulthood and in relation to two unique generations of American parents and children. There is no other data set that offers such extensive cross generational measurement possibilities for capturing this crucial moment in the unfolding life course consequences of an unprecedented American experiment with high levels of imprisonment and prisoner reentry.","crimson_battery","Adolescent and Adult Lives of Children of Parents Returning From Prison",
"1349728","Collaborative Research: The Frequency and Patterns of Crime Against Religious Congregations","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","4/15/2014","4/4/2014","Jeffery Ulmer","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","3/31/2017","$262,525.00 ","","jtu100@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331, 1372","0000, OTHR","$0.00 ","Places of worship are among the most prevalent and visible institutions in communities across the United States. This visibility, though, means that churches, synagogues, mosques, temples, and other religious congregations are often targets for street crime and ethnic- or even religiously-motivated hate crime. Indeed, it is easy to find hundreds of news reports each year about a religious congregation being victimized by vandalism, theft, arson, or some other crime. Yet, the victimization of religious congregations has received little attention by social scientists. Our research will contribute to the testing and extension of theories of crime and its relationship to community contexts, as well as theories of ethnic conflict and religious persecution.<br/><br/>This project will gather nationally representative survey data on the prevalence, pattern, and predictors of victimization of religious congregations along with in-depth interview data with congregational leaders and their experiences with crime. We will compare and contrast the factors that predict street crime victimization with those that predict religiously-motivated hate crime victimization. These data will not only allow social scientists to test theories of crime, ethnic conflict, and religious persecution, but they will also provide the foundation for law enforcement, community, and congregational leaders to prevent and respond to the victimization of places of worship.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: The Frequency and Patterns of Crime Against Religious Congregations",
"1457193","The Prison Inmate Networks Study (PINS)","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","4/15/2015","2/8/2016","Derek Kreager","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Continuing grant","Scott Barclay","3/31/2017","$323,814.00 ","Gary Zajac","dak27@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331, 1372","","$0.00 ","This study will advance our understanding of incarceration and its consequences by focusing on prison social systems and their informal network structures. The project will answer three related research questions: (1) What is the informal social structure within prison? (2) What are the processes through which informal social structure is created and sustained? and (3) What are the consequences of informal social structure and inmates' positions within it for inmate-level and prison-level outcomes? Understanding the prison social system and its connections with risk and rehabilitative behaviors will improve inmate and ex-inmate health, thereby reducing the costs associated with recidivism and underemployment. Study results will also contribute to our understanding of the collateral consequences of mass incarceration on vulnerable communities (e.g., disadvantaged and minority communities) that receive the majority of released inmates.<br/><br/>The project will take a network perspective and collect longitudinal data in a single prison to reveal the informal network structure and correlate this with inmate health, safety, and rehabilitative outcomes. The investigators will design and field a network survey measuring ties of friendship, respect, communication, and support for all inmates in one prison unit (150-200 inmates) of a Pennsylvania medium security men's prison. Survey administration will be conducted via three Computer-Assisted Personal Interviews (CAPI) repeated at 3-month intervals. Drawing on network and social influence theories, the study will analyze how the prison's informal network structure relates to the distribution and diffusion of inmate behavioral and rehabilitative outcomes--including misconduct, schooling, prison employment, and prison program completion. These analyses will be conducted using sophisticated methods for cross-sectional and longitudinal networks. Behavioral data will be assessed from multiple sources, including inmate surveys, prison work records, misconduct records, drug tests, visitation lists, and gang classification data. Inmate prison network surveys will be accompanied by retrospective accounts of pre-prison conventional and criminal social ties. These data will be combined with visitation records to analyze how prison affects social capital accumulation, family cohesion and social support, and the balance of conventional and criminal ties over time, including after prison release.","crimson_atom","The Prison Inmate Networks Study (PINS)",
"1625698","Collaborative Research: Crime Risk and Police Notification","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/1/2016","7/19/2016","Eric Baumer","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","8/31/2018","$81,110.00 ","","epb5167@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331, 1372","","$0.00 ","This project will examine three questions: (1) Is the risk of non-lethal criminal victimization among persons and households in the US significantly influenced by neighborhood immigrant concentration? (2) Is the likelihood of police notification among crime victims significantly influenced by neighborhood immigrant concentration? and (3) Do the effects of neighborhood immigrant concentration on victimization risk and police notification differ by individual race and ethnicity, and across counties that exhibit variability in immigration history, minority political incorporation, and the nature of policing? <br/><br/>These questions will be addressed by linking data on victimization and police notification from more than 600,000 household and 1 million person interviews from the 2007-2014 restricted-use NCVS to data from the American Community Survey and other sources. This project will advance understanding by: (1) offering the first nationwide analysis of the influence of neighborhood immigrant concentration on reporting crime to the police; (2) reevaluating the impact of neighborhood immigrant concentration on crime with data that include incidents both reported and unreported to the police; and (3) considering multiple measures of neighborhood immigrant concentration (the percentage foreign born, neighborhood spatial clustering or isolation of the foreign born, and foreign born concentration for Latinos and Asians).","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Crime Risk and Police Notification",
"1542474","Intergenerational Consequences of Incarceration","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2015","8/10/2015","Kristin Turney","CA","University of California-Irvine","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2018","$334,249.00 ","","kristin.turney@uci.edu","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150","Irvine","CA","5171 California Avenue, Ste 150, Irvine, CA","926173067","9498244768","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","SES-1542474<br/>Kristin Turney<br/>University of California, Irvine<br/><br/>The rapid growth of incarceration in the United States, a phenomenon characterized by its concentration among already marginalized individuals, means that a historically unprecedented number of children experience parental incarceration. This project will examine how paternal incarceration is linked to childhood inequalities in the United States. The investigator will collect and analyze longitudinal primary data (multiple interviews with mothers and children) from 100 families in California to investigate inequalities in the academic, behavioral, and social outcomes between children with incarcerated parents in comparison to those without such parents. This project will contribute to knowledge about paternal incarceration and inequalities among children. By considering the processes that unfold during and after incarceration, the research documents the short- and long-term consequences of paternal incarceration for children?s wellbeing. Also, by considering the differences across families that are affected by paternal incarceration, the study explores for which children paternal incarceration is most consequential. <br/><br/>This project examines the complex and countervailing consequences of paternal incarceration for the intergenerational transmission of inequality. The study will, theoretically and empirically, contribute to our understanding of paternal incarceration and the intergenerational transmission of inequality. The research considers the dynamic nature of incarceration, as well as the processes that unfold during and after incarceration. It also considers heterogeneity by developmental stage, individual characteristics, and children?s risk of experiencing paternal incarceration. By considering family, school, and neighborhood mechanisms that may be strategic points of policy and practice interventions, the research documents how paternal incarceration is deleterious for children. This project will inform effective policy and practice interventions to alleviate inequality. By moving beyond an examination of the average causal effects of paternal incarceration, and by considering the nuances inherent in the intergenerational consequences of paternal incarceration, the project has implications for social policies and interventions. For example, understanding the dynamic relationship between paternal incarceration and children?s developmental trajectories will provide guidance about when and how long to intervene. Also, understanding heterogeneity in the consequences of paternal incarceration across population subgroups will provide an understanding about which children most need and will most benefit from interventions and, therefore, provide guidance about how to allocate resources. Finally, understanding the role of social contexts (e.g., families, schools, and neighborhoods) will provide direction about how to most successfully intervene.","crimson_battery","Intergenerational Consequences of Incarceration",
"1324875","National Historical Geographic Information System","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES, CDS&E, ","8/15/2013","8/13/2013","Steven Manson","MN","University of Minnesota-Twin Cities","Standard Grant","Cheryl L. Eavey","7/31/2018","$869,999.00 ","John Adams, Catherine Fitch, Katie Genadek","manson@umn.edu","200 OAK ST SE","Minneapolis","MN","200 OAK ST SE, Minneapolis, MN","554552070","6126245599","SBE","1320, 1331, 1333, 1352, 8084, MX17","7433","$0.00 ","The National Historical Geographic Information System (NHGIS) is the nation's most comprehensive source for statistical data, geographic data, and metadata describing spatial characteristics of the American population from 1790 to the present. With 265 billion data points, NHGIS is the largest publicly accessible social science database in the world and is used by thousands of researchers. This project will implement four major improvements to the infrastructure of NHGIS. NHGIS will create data tables for the 1790-1940 decennial censuses from a massive new individual-level database. The project will develop new GIS data identifying locations of incorporated places and MCDs for the 1790-1970 censuses. Census unit boundaries frequently change from one census to the next, making it difficult to analyze population changes over time and space. NHGIS will interpolate census statistics from 1980, 1990, and 2000 and the American Community Survey to produce estimates for 2010 census areas at several geographic levels, including census tracts, places, county subdivisions, and metropolitan areas. Finally, the project will sustain and expand NHGIS education and outreach efforts, offering individual user support and in-person workshops, online tutorials, and web-based community tools. <br/><br/>NHGIS democratizes access to the census, the fundamental source of data about the U.S. population. The proposed improvements will be used for academic research and also for social science training, journalism, policy research at the state and local levels, and private sector research. This infrastructure will allow thousands of investigators in disciplines from economics and ecology to environmental and health policy to address changes across the broad sweep of time at fine levels of spatial organization. NHGIS provides a unique laboratory for the spatial analysis of economic and social processes and offers the empirical foundation needed for developing and testing models of society. Creating new spatiotemporal data for the period 1790 through 1940 will open new opportunities to investigate profound social and economic transformations of American society, including industrialization, immigration, westward migration, and urbanization. Small-area census data are the primary source for investigating such critical issues as suburbanization, the decline and rebirth of central cities, residential segregation, immigrant settlement patterns, rural depopulation, agricultural consolidation, and population shifts from the rust belt to the Sunbelt. The improvements to NHGIS will allow researchers to apply new and powerful approaches to familiar problems by broadening the scope of local and regional analyses to explore variations across time and space simultaneously.","crimson_battery","National Historical Geographic Information System",
"1356252","Collaborative Research: Crime and Community in a Changing Society, the National Neighborhood Crime Study 2","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","8/15/2014","6/24/2016","Maria Velez","NM","University of New Mexico","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$167,701.00 ","Christopher Lyons","mvelez@unm.edu","1700 Lomas Blvd. NE, Suite 2200","ALBUQUERQUE","NM","1700 Lomas Blvd. NE, Suite 2200, ALBUQUERQUE, NM","871310001","5052774186","SBE","1331, 1372","9150","$0.00 ","SES-1357207<br/>Lauren Krivo<br/>Rutgers University<br/><br/>SES-1356252<br/>Maria Velez<br/>Christopher Lyons<br/>University of New Mexico<br/><br/>The United States recently has undergone considerable social and economic upheaval in communities across the country, especially in the years leading up to and following the Great Recession of the 2000s. Rising unemployment, increased poverty and income inequality, high foreclosure rates, and falling home prices have strained communities and exacerbated inequalities across areas and between racial/ethnic groups in ways that should alter levels and disparities in serious crime. Changing crime, in turn, can alter the fate of neighborhoods as groups and institutions seek to leave or instead remain trapped in high crime areas. Yet, there is a lack of information about the influences of societal conditions and crime on each other in a changing society. This research will answer two fundamental questions: (1) how have social transformations since 2000 affected differences across neighborhoods in their levels of crime?; and (2) to what extent are changing city and neighborhood conditions, including race-ethnic inequality, both causes and consequences of evolving crime patterns? The research team will collect new data for 2010 on crime for over 9,500 neighborhoods in 91 cities and combine these with crime data for 2000 from the first wave of the National Neighborhood Crime Study. Information regarding the social, economic, demographic, political and geographic contexts of cities and neighborhoods will be added to the crime data to produce a comprehensive nationally representative database of urban neighborhoods and crime for 1990 to 2010. These data will be used to analyze the consequences of recent societal changes for crime and neighborhood race-ethnic differences in crime. They will also be used to study how crime shapes social conditions within U.S. communities. The research questions will be addressed using forms of statistical analysis that consider how neighborhoods are embedded within a particular city and metropolitan area, and how neighborhoods that are near one another may affect each other. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>This research has significant broad impacts in a number of important ways. First, by shedding light on the underlying sources of neighborhood vulnerabilities for rising crime, especially in non-White areas, findings will inform discussions about how to make communities safer. Second, the data collected will be made publically available and, thereby, provide an unprecedented resource for other researchers to further study changes in cities and neighborhoods. Third, the investigators will enhance the training and careers of students from diverse backgrounds by employing students from underrepresented groups to work on data collection and analysis. Fourth, the project will contribute to the intellectual development of a diverse interdisciplinary group of scholars with core interests in race, crime, and justice (the Racial Democracy, Crime, and Justice Network currently funded by the National Science Foundation) by providing members of this network with direct training and early access to the data. Finally, the investigators plan to disseminate theoretical and practical information based upon findings about ways to improve neighborhoods and cities to increase safety within communities through presentations at academic conferences, scholarly publications, and briefings with policymakers.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Crime and Community in a Changing Society, the National Neighborhood Crime Study 2",
"1357488","Collaborative Research: A New Infrastructure for Monitoring Social Class Networks.","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","8/22/2014","David Grusky","CA","Stanford University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$116,924.00 ","","grusky@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1357488<br/>David Grusky<br/>Stanford University<br/><br/>SES-1357442<br/>Michael Macy<br/>Cornell University<br/><br/>Over the last 15 years, an ever larger and more diverse population is choosing to interact using social media that record the digital traces of their communications, a development that opens up unprecedented opportunities to study the network foundation of social class relations. Although there is a long tradition of research examining whether social classes in the United States are well-formed, it has been based exclusively on survey and Census data and, by necessity, has ignored the network foundations of class structure and formation. This research takes advantage of the rising amount of interaction with social media to examine that network structure at population scale. The resulting methods will provide the basis for a new and novel research infrastructure for investigating inter-personal interaction within and between social classes in the United States.<br/><br/>By using data from a complete crawl of U.S. Twitter users, it becomes possible to measure class barriers to interpersonal interaction. The centerpiece of this approach is the development of methods to measure the class situation of users with profile data, lexical analysis of message content, and housing valuations for geo-located users. To supplement and validate these behavioral measures, a survey will be administered to a random sample of network edges. A similar analysis of Facebook users will be carried out. The resulting data will be used to complete the first network-based analyses of the extent and patterning of the U.S. class structure. In conventional ?static analyses? of the class structure, the size of inter-class differences in behaviors and attitudes (e.g., childrearing practices, political attitudes) is emphasized, while the patterning of inter-class contact and networks that link classes together is ignored. The key question, therefore, is whether the proposed network analyses of class yield a different portrait of the structure of social classes than the static analyses that have dominated decades of class research in the U.S. At the same time, some network-based analyses of class have been attempted in the past, analyses that have relied on an idiosyncratic range of network behaviors that may be discerned with survey methods (especially, assortative mating where people marry persons with similar education and occupational characteristics, and intergenerational social mobility). The analyses undertaken here will reveal whether social media reduces class barriers to interaction relative to the level of class homophily (the tendency of people to associate with similar people) revealed in face-to-face networks available in survey data. These analyses will provide the foundation of a new network-based analysis of class structure.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>If class barriers are comparatively weak in on-line interactions, standard measurements of class structure will provide an increasingly misleading portrait of civil society and its inclusiveness. It is also plausible, however, that the powerful search algorithms of online platforms allow people to efficiently cull for alters who are similar to themselves. If the latter proves to be the case, it means that the rise of new social media are, contrary to the conventional view, increasing class homophily and polarizing class relations. The research also has a methodological payoff. Because a network-based analysis of social class structure requires high-quality measurements of the class situation of media users, much of the research will focus on developing the methods that make such measurement possible. The social class of users and alters will be imputed by (a) linking geo-located users to their neighborhoods and housing values, (b) exploiting available profile data, (c) carrying out a lexical analysis of message content, and (d) administering surveys to users. These methods, which may be extended to carry out analogous imputations of race, gender, and other ascribed traits, will be of use to researchers in the social sciences, computer science, information science, and other disciplines facing the stock situation in which direct information on individual traits is scarce. The project will also provide new research opportunities for graduates and undergraduates at Cornell University and Stanford University.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: A New Infrastructure for Monitoring Social Class Networks.",
"1626886","Labor Market Insecurity and Perceived Employability","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2016","7/29/2016","Arne Kalleberg","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$93,281.00 ","Lindsey King","Arne Kalleberg@UNC.EDU","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1626886<br/>Arne Kalleberg<br/>Lindsey King<br/>University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill<br/><br/>As employment becomes more precarious and uncertain, workers are consistently advised to keep themselves sought-after in the labor market. Hence, perceived employability, or workers' beliefs in their ability to find an acceptable job, emerges as a fundamental issue for contemporary labor market research. Employed workers experience less stress when they are confident they can find a new, comparable job if they lose their present one. Unemployed workers who feel they are employable are more motivated to keep searching for jobs. While perceived employability is influenced by individuals' attributes, societal contexts also affect it. This project examines how country differences in labor market institutions and public policies are related to employed and unemployed workers' perceptions of their employability. The investigators hypothesize that perceived employability is bolstered by policies that promote labor market flexibility or help workers gain marketable skills, net of economic conditions. Understanding how these institutions and policies affect individuals' perceptions helps to comprehend better how social contexts matter for people's psychological well-being and career outcomes. This knowledge is essential for designing effective social and economic policies intended to help individuals manage the risks associated with the increasing uncertainty characterizing labor markets; it is also crucial for informing individuals' decisions about educational and training alternatives that are likely to help them to secure meaningful and rewarding jobs. Thus, the researchers will share the results of the project with policy-makers as well as both employed and unemployed individuals, in addition to scholars studying labor markets, work, and inequality.<br/><br/>How do workers perceive their ability to find work, and how do labor market policies shape this evaluation? Existing research suggests that both economic and regulatory conditions shape workers' evaluations of their employment prospects. Workers in market-oriented economies tend to be more confident in their employability than those in rigid labor markets, where labor market transitions from job to job or unemployment to employment are more difficult. This pilot study examines the relationship between labor market policies that facilitate transitions into new jobs and workers' perceptions of their employability. The research has two main objectives. First, the investigators use international survey data from Europe, East Asia, North America, and Oceania to examine the links between policy and perceived employability among both employed and unemployed workers. They hypothesize that perceived employability will be greater when unemployment is low, labor markets are flexible, and when countries provide support that helps workers become re-employed. Second, the researchers use longitudinal panel data from the United Kingdom to assess how employability perceptions impact the likelihood of future employment among unemployed workers.","crimson_battery","Labor Market Insecurity and Perceived Employability",
"1628477","Credit Markets, Evaluative Technologies, and Social Stratification","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2016","7/28/2016","Marion Fourcade","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$99,998.00 ","","fourcade@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1628477<br/>Marion Fourcade <br/>Kieran Healy<br/>University of California-Berkeley<br/><br/>This project investigates how credit markets measure and classify people and households. Over the past thirty years, access to credit has expanded greatly in the United States. Middle-class families borrow more, and lower income and minority families have become incorporated into the banking system. At the same time, the variety of available credit products has increased, the tools used to measure and assess creditworthiness have become more sophisticated, and these tools are increasingly used in new ways that go well beyond their original purposes. It is important to understand how these tools and their application affect people's chances for economic prosperity, social mobility, and successful incorporation into American society. To study how credit markets classify individuals, researchers need data that combines demographic information with people's credit market behavior. This project will make use of an original dataset with these unique features on a scale that goes beyond previous research. Using detailed anonymous data on individual credit histories in conjunction with Census data, the project will investigate how scoring techniques in the credit market are related to demographic patterns and processes in markets. It will help us better understand the relationship between credit scoring methods, adverse credit events like debt default, bankruptcy, and foreclosure, and other socioeconomic factors like employment and household wealth. It will also help explain why demographic inequality in credit classification persists even though credit reporting agencies cannot collect or use demographic data about individuals. <br/><br/>Credit scores are meant to measure the behavior of individuals as they spend their money. Earlier research suggests that, in addition to people?s preferences and wants, this behavior is shaped by various environmental factors such as the local supply of education and employment, the density of alternative financial services, the financial resources available to people through their networks, and the credit market behavior of one's peers. For example, if there is a wave of foreclosures in one's neighborhood, that may decrease one's own home equity in a way that is independent of one's individual financial choices. This may in turn affect one's ability to refinance one's mortgage or make other financial decisions. The project will investigate the existence and scope of the contextual forces that affect individual credit and financial security, and contribute new results to current social-scientific and policy debates about the role of consumer credit in the economy. The project will also explore other social features of credit markets and credit scoring. In particular, there is an ongoing debate about whether the process of monitoring credit and assigning credit scores simply reflects events in the market or itself exerts some independent effect in that market. The project?s rich data on credit behavior over long periods of time will allow the investigation of this question in more detail than has been possible before now.","crimson_battery","Credit Markets, Evaluative Technologies, and Social Stratification",
"1357207","Collaborative Research: Crime and Community in a Changing Society, The National Neighborhood Crime Study 2","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, ","8/15/2014","6/28/2016","Lauren Krivo","NJ","Rutgers University New Brunswick","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$298,360.00 ","","lkrivo@sociology.rutgers.edu","33 Knightsbridge Road","Piscataway","NJ","33 Knightsbridge Road, Piscataway, NJ","88543925","8489320150","SBE","1331, 1372, NX26","","$0.00 ","SES-1357207<br/>Lauren Krivo<br/>Rutgers University<br/><br/>SES-1356252<br/>Maria Velez<br/>Christopher Lyons<br/>University of New Mexico<br/><br/>The United States recently has undergone considerable social and economic upheaval in communities across the country, especially in the years leading up to and following the Great Recession of the 2000s. Rising unemployment, increased poverty and income inequality, high foreclosure rates, and falling home prices have strained communities and exacerbated inequalities across areas and between racial/ethnic groups in ways that should alter levels and disparities in serious crime. Changing crime, in turn, can alter the fate of neighborhoods as groups and institutions seek to leave or instead remain trapped in high crime areas. Yet, there is a lack of information about the influences of societal conditions and crime on each other in a changing society. This research will answer two fundamental questions: (1) how have social transformations since 2000 affected differences across neighborhoods in their levels of crime?; and (2) to what extent are changing city and neighborhood conditions, including race-ethnic inequality, both causes and consequences of evolving crime patterns? The research team will collect new data for 2010 on crime for over 9,500 neighborhoods in 91 cities and combine these with crime data for 2000 from the first wave of the National Neighborhood Crime Study. Information regarding the social, economic, demographic, political and geographic contexts of cities and neighborhoods will be added to the crime data to produce a comprehensive nationally representative database of urban neighborhoods and crime for 1990 to 2010. These data will be used to analyze the consequences of recent societal changes for crime and neighborhood race-ethnic differences in crime. They will also be used to study how crime shapes social conditions within U.S. communities. The research questions will be addressed using forms of statistical analysis that consider how neighborhoods are embedded within a particular city and metropolitan area, and how neighborhoods that are near one another may affect each other. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>This research has significant broad impacts in a number of important ways. First, by shedding light on the underlying sources of neighborhood vulnerabilities for rising crime, especially in non-White areas, findings will inform discussions about how to make communities safer. Second, the data collected will be made publically available and, thereby, provide an unprecedented resource for other researchers to further study changes in cities and neighborhoods. Third, the investigators will enhance the training and careers of students from diverse backgrounds by employing students from underrepresented groups to work on data collection and analysis. Fourth, the project will contribute to the intellectual development of a diverse interdisciplinary group of scholars with core interests in race, crime, and justice (the Racial Democracy, Crime, and Justice Network currently funded by the National Science Foundation) by providing members of this network with direct training and early access to the data. Finally, the investigators plan to disseminate theoretical and practical information based upon findings about ways to improve neighborhoods and cities to increase safety within communities through presentations at academic conferences, scholarly publications, and briefings with policymakers.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Crime and Community in a Changing Society, The National Neighborhood Crime Study 2",
"1357340","Co-development of Economic, Civic, and Kinship Networks","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2014","7/30/2014","John Padgett","IL","University of Chicago","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$250,000.00 ","","jpadgett@uchicago.edu","5801 South Ellis Avenue","Chicago","IL","5801 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, IL","606375418","7737028669","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","This project examines the emergence of novel organizational forms by studying changes in and re-combinations of social networks that are based on kinship, economic, and civic linkages. The research focuses on social networks as foundations for other institutions and collects unusually detailed data on a specific historical case that produced organizational novelty and inventions so prolifically that it influenced the development of western civilization. This study continues a trajectory of research by the investigator in which previous findings from research on Florence Italy have been generalized and applied to analyses diverse cases. Specifically, this past research has been used in generating better understandings of the rise of capitalism in Europe, the transformation of Communism in the twentieth century, and the biotechnology industry in Silicon Valley. A central outcome of this project will be the completion and public release of a relational data base on changing economic, civic, and kinship networks among about 70,000 citizens. This will be further generalizable to modern and diverse cases.<br/><br/>The ""emergence of organization novelty,"" the subject of this research, has broad relevance. The Florentine economy has been exceptionally resilient in the face of shocks, wars, plagues, and social revolts. Florentine industry shifted from wool-manufacturing, to international banking (the economic foundation of their extraordinary wealth and cultural patronage), to silk production during this time frame. Similarly, Florentine governmental and civic institutions were remarkably inventive and flexible. Many constitutional systems of representation have been experimented with, ranging from democratic to oligarchical to centralized in effect. By studying these specific cases, this research will contribute to answering the broad general question of what makes macroeconomic, civic and governmental flexibility and resilience. The findings from this research enable theoretical development that can be applied to similar modern conditions. Increasing and improving general knowledge about causal interrelationships between (easily visible) institutional order and (hard to see) social-network foundations has potential for wide application beyond this particular case study.","crimson_battery","Co-development of Economic, Civic, and Kinship Networks",
"1357585","Central Plains Census Research Data Center","SES","ECONOMICS, SOCIOLOGY, METHOD, MEASURE & STATS","8/1/2014","8/8/2014","Robert Belli","NE","University of Nebraska-Lincoln","Standard Grant","Nancy A. Lutz","7/31/2017","$300,000.00 ","Sarah Nusser, John Anderson, Eric Thompson","bbelli2@unl.edu","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier","Lincoln","NE","2200 Vine St, 151 Whittier, Lincoln, NE","685031435","4024723171","SBE","1320, 1331, 1333","9150","$0.00 ","This award provides funds for a new Research Data Center on the campus of the University of Nebraska Lincoln, with a branch center at Iowa State University. Research Data Centers are established by host institutions with cooperation from the Bureau of the Census. The Center will provide secure access to restricted-use government microdata for the purpose of statistical research. Research at this Center will include projects on a wide range of topics, including economics, rural vs. urban life and resource sustainability, and water and food security. The research conducted at this RDC will give policymakers new insights into long term trends in this region of the country. In addition, Center researchers plan to use their expertise in survey methods to work to develop methods appropriate for Census data.<br/><br/>This RDC is supported by an initial consortium that includes the host institutions and the University of Nebraska Medical Center, the University of South Dakota, and the University of Iowa. The Center will add geographic diversity to the current network of 18 existing RDCs.","crimson_battery","Central Plains Census Research Data Center",
"1420721","Litigation Strategies in US Social Movements","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","8/15/2014","8/12/2014","Holly McCammon","TN","Vanderbilt University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$245,206.00 ","","holly.mccammon@vanderbilt.edu","Sponsored Programs Administratio","Nashville","TN","Sponsored Programs Administratio, Nashville, TN","372350002","6153222631","SBE","1331, 1372","9150, 9179","$0.00 ","U.S. social movements in the latter half of the 20th century have increasingly used litigation as they worked to broaden legal rights. Yet we know little about how they pursue cases in the courts, particularly when and how they litigate strategically and whether and which litigation strategies are successful. This study will examine litigation in the federal courts by the U.S. women's movement from 1970 until the present, asking a) whether and how they develop and deploy litigation strategies and b) whether strategic litigation is successful in winning court cases and influencing broader social policy. <br/><br/>The research will draw on qualitative case studies of key legal advocacy organizations and a quantitative data set of federal court cases. The work will further our understanding of how social groups gain greater legal equality in the judicial arena. The project will give greater agency to actors by moving ""inside"" movement advocacy organizations, through interviews with litigators and organizational archival data, to assess the development and deployment of litigation strategy and whether such litigation succeeds in winning legal cases and influencing broader policy. <br/><br/>The project will bring wider understanding of social science research and advocacy lawyering and litigation to broader audiences in two ways. First, through Vanderbilt University's Center for Science Outreach, the project will recruit four high-school students for summer internships, mentoring them in social science inquiry and study of advocacy litigation. Second, the PI will share research findings with two broader audiences, a) high school, college, and law students in Nashville and at Vanderbilt University, and b) national and local legal professional groups and litigation advocacy groups.","crimson_battery","Litigation Strategies in US Social Movements",
"1435946","Doctoral Dissertation Research: State Capacity and Labor Migration","SES","SOCIOLOGY","11/15/2014","10/31/2014","Vivek Chibber","NY","New York University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","10/31/2016","$11,970.00 ","Suzy Kim Lee","vivek.chibber@nyu.edu","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S","NEW YORK","NY","70 WASHINGTON SQUARE S, NEW YORK, NY","100121019","2129982121","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","SES- 1435946<br/>Vivek Chibber <br/>Suzy Lee <br/>New York University<br/><br/>In recent years, international labor migration has become an increasingly visible component of overall economic development strategy, promoted by the World Bank and other international agencies as a potential source of foreign exchange, with the Philippines often upheld to be a model for how states can ""manage"" migration flows. For the past forty years, the Philippines have been among the top labor exporting countries of the world -- in both absolute numbers and as a percentage of its population. This project seeks to identify the factors that explain this rate of migration. The predominant explanation for this phenomenon, in both policy and scholarly circles, has been to attribute high rates of migration to migration itself: past migration produces social networks that facilitate and promote further migration. The problem with this explanation is that, while it works well to explain migration from certain countries, such as that of Mexican workers to the U.S., it fails to explain the Philippine case, which relies less on friends-and-family networks than it does on a complex state-led bureaucracy that helps coordinate migrants with international labor markets. <br/><br/>This dissertation will assess the role of the Philippine state, and, more importantly, to explain the factors that contributed to the development of the state's labor export system. Among the factors examined will be the role of elite preference: Did economic and social elites promote the development of a labor export program as a political ""safety valve"" -- a means to ameliorate social and economic conflicts without making the radical changes required for rapid economic development? If it can be shown that, in the Philippine case, the very factors that led to the strength of the labor export apparatus were also the factors that obstructed the development of state capacity in agrarian reform and industrialization -- two policy areas critical to economic development, it would suggest that promoting labor migration is unlikely ever to produce the desired development outcomes. It would suggest that the social costs of such policies are not likely to be balanced by economic growth, and thus, that the people of developing countries are better served by policies that do not rely on large-scale labor migration.<br/><br/><br/>Scholarship on migration, particularly in the U.S., has long been dominated by the importance of the Mexican-U.S. migration circuit, in which historical links and strong social networks has played a major causal role, while the sending states efforts to intervene in migration has been largely nonexistent. In the past two decades, new research on other labor migrations, notably from the Philippines, has suggested that states can play a more significant role. However, migration theory has struggled to incorporate these findings, opting, for the most part, to see the Philippine state?s activities as an extension of the social networks theory a more institutional and structured form under which migration takes place, but both a product of the same forces that produce migration elsewhere and producing effects that are not very different from what would occur without state intervention. Demonstrating that a domestic causal factor, not directly related to migration itself, was key in the development of the Philippines labor export apparatus, would advance our understanding of international labor migration and states' role in its growth and globalization.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: State Capacity and Labor Migration",
"1627479","Understanding Changing Inequality within Families in the United States, 1960-2015","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/15/2016","6/20/2016","Stephanie Moller","NC","University of North Carolina at Charlotte","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2018","$203,966.00 ","Joseph Whitmeyer","smoller@uncc.edu","9201 University City Boulevard","CHARLOTTE","NC","9201 University City Boulevard, CHARLOTTE, NC","282230001","7046871888","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1627479<br/>Stephanie Moller<br/>Joseph Whitmeyer<br/>University of North Carolina at Charlotte<br/><br/>Family income inequality in the United States has increased since the latter half of the twentieth century, reflecting a reversal of a long period of declining income inequality. In explaining this upswing, many researchers have focused on a shrinking middle class and polarization of income. Yet, this explanation is most relevant for White, two parent families. Changes in income inequality have unfolded differently for other family types, a pattern that is often overlooked in the extant literature. As a result, researchers do not yet know whether factors that shape aggregate patterns of inequality apply to changes in income inequality for sub-segments of families by race and family structure. This is an important gap in the literature as the United States is a diverse society. The proposed research will assess the extent that economic, demographic, and political shifts since the 1960s affect household income inequality among diverse families. This research will contribute to data infrastructure by developing two comprehensive, historical datasets: The Comparative U.S. Counties Dataset which will include decennial data 1960-2010 and the Comparative U.S. States Dataset which will include annual data 1960-2015. These data will be combined with household data from the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics to examine the extent that predictors of aggregate changes in inequality explain within-group inequality. The datasets will be distributed to other researchers, and the findings will be distributed through research articles and policy briefs. This project provides invaluable training for a graduate research assistant and opportunities for other graduate students to utilize these data for thesis and dissertation research. <br/><br/>The investigators will examine income inequality among subgroups of families, dividing them by race and family structure. The proposed study will include two sets of analyses. First, utilizing decennial census data (1960-2010), the investigators will assign families with children to quintiles of the family income distribution. They will then create county-level measures of the percentage of each family type in each quintile of the income distribution. The investigators will also create a summary measure of inequality within each group. A hierarchical repeated measures model will allow the investigators to assess the extent that theories that help explain changes in aggregate income inequality over time apply to sub-segments of families. In the second set of analyses, the investigators will analyze family income data from the Current Population Survey (1967 to 2015). Families will be disaggregated by race and family structure. Hierarchical quantile regression will assess the extent that economic and labor market, sociodemographic, and political variables explain family income at different locations in the income distribution. These analyses will clarify whether macro level associations identified in the previous step simply reflect different families? exposure to macro shifts (such as part-year employment associated with the rise in precarious work) or if the aggregate patterns predict families? locations in income distributions independent of individual-level demographics, employment and education.","crimson_battery","Understanding Changing Inequality within Families in the United States, 1960-2015",
"1355693","Spatial Analyses of Segregation Trends","SES","SOCIOLOGY, GEOGRAPHY AND SPATIAL SCIENCES","6/15/2014","6/23/2014","John Logan","RI","Brown University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$246,486.00 ","","john_logan@brown.edu","BOX 1929","Providence","RI","BOX 1929, Providence, RI","29129002","4018632777","SBE","1331, 1352","","$0.00 ","SES-1355693<br/>John Logan<br/>Brown University<br/><br/>This project analyzes the changes in residential patterns of European immigrants and African American migrants in ten major Northern and Midwestern cities. For the case of African Americans it will provide new detailed information about the trend toward increasing residential segregation that accompanied the Great Migration from the South. To what extent did individual socioeconomic mobility translate into living in more integrated or higher status neighborhoods for blacks? What was the response of whites to growing black population in certain parts of the city? For the case of European immigrants, the study will shed light on the process of spatial assimilation that has been documented in prior research. Were the earlier arriving groups (Germans, Irish, and British) still segregated from native whites when new groups began to arrive in large numbers? How long did it take for Italians, Russians, and Scandinavians to begin moving out of dense ethnic neighborhoods, and what were the characteristics of people who left or stayed within them? How did these processes vary across cities, based on group size or composition? <br/><br/>The selection of cities for this study makes it possible to analyze both the spatial assimilation and segregation of immigrants, who were highly concentrated in these cities,. With respect to both kinds of minorities the study breaks new ground by studying segregation at a much higher spatial resolution (the enumeration district and census tract) than the ward (which is the basis for most research on segregation). A key comparison is between black-white segregation (believed to be moderate until after 1920 when blacks began moving in large numbers in the Great Migration) and immigrant residential enclaves that are viewed as transitory in nature. This project will offer a critical test of these conclusions and provide some of the first analyses of trends in class segregation. In addition, it will answer questions about the processes of residential change based on spatial analyses of neighborhoods. First, which group members lived in co-ethnic neighborhoods and how did social mobility and acculturation translate into living outside of these enclaves for different groups, in different kinds of cities, and in different decades)? For this purpose neighborhoods will be defined as combinations of enumeration districts based on spatial dependence in social composition. Neighborhoods, then, are expected to vary in location and scale over time as settlement patterns evolve. Second, how do neighborhoods change, particularly in relation to the invasion/succession process that has been documented for much of the 20th Century ? the phenomenon of native (3+ generation) whites deserting neighborhoods when blacks and immigrants began arriving. Were there tipping points of racial and ethnic change in the early decades of the century, and if so did the extent of white native flight differ according to the race and ethnicity of new arrivals?<br/><br/>Broader Impacts <br/><br/>These questions will be addressed using 100% samples of residents of ten cities in each decade, aggregated to small areas (enumeration districts) and mapped within a GIS system. The data and maps will be made available for public use via a web-based map browser and also shared through direct download. This study is highly relevant to major contemporary social concerns. Black ghettoization anchored patterns of racial segregation, and processes of immigrant spatial assimilation have been renewed as Hispanics and Asians have become the fastest growing population groups in the nation. It is essential to understand the precedents for these processes in order to have realistic expectations about the current situation.","crimson_battery","Spatial Analyses of Segregation Trends",
"1528344","The Incorporation of Religious Minorities in Canada and the United States","SES","SOCIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Prema Kurien","NY","Syracuse University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2018","$198,199.00 ","","pkurien@syr.edu","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROGRAMS","SYRACUSE","NY","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROGRAMS, SYRACUSE, NY","132441200","3154432807","SBE","1331, 1371","9179","$0.00 ","SES-1528344<br/>Prema Kurien<br/>Syracuse University<br/><br/>This research aims to uncover the factors that influence the form that mobilization takes, whether it is ""ethnic,"" ""racial,"" or ""religious."" It examines how different opportunity structures (both national and local) and differences in the characteristics of the groups shape how they frame their grievances and mobilize. Focusing on Hindu and Sikh communities and advocacy organizations serving these groups in Toronto, Vancouver, New York/New Jersey, and northern California, this project is being conducted both through interviews and analysis of available information about the organizations. The PI will complete interviews with community activists, other members who are closely involved with the community, and with academic experts. The PI will also conduct an analysis of newspaper and media articles, materials produced by the advocacy organizations, and materials discussing differences in opportunity structures and the characteristics of the two groups in North America. This research will contribute to a better understanding of why diasporic groups in different countries might or might not support particular types of long-distance nationalism. Ethnic nationalism and inter-group tensions can also lead to violence in host countries and is of concern to Western states, as well. More broadly, this project will reveal the factors shaping the very different patterns of civic activism and integration of immigrant groups from religious minority backgrounds.<br/><br/><br/>This project contributes to civic incorporation and social movement theories by examining the reasons for the differential mobilization of two important religious minority groups--individuals of Hindu and Sikh background. Hindus and Sikhs have broadly similar patterns of migration to the U.S. and Canada and have close ties with their compatriots across the border, but manifest divergent political activism profiles both within and between the two countries. Dominant paradigms of social incorporation emphasize the opportunity structure of the host country or the characteristics of groups in explaining differences in involvement. However, neither paradigm can satisfactorily explain both inter-country differences between the mobilization of varying religious groups in Canada and the United States and the intra-country differences between the public visibility and activism of the two groups. This research aims to uncover the factors that influence the form that mobilization takes. The study of ""negative cases"" (the relative lack of mobilization of Hindus in Canada and Sikhs and Sri Lankan Tamils in the U.S.) will help to clarify the relationships between the different factors shaping civic involvement and integration. Some scholars have argued that there has been a shift in group mobilization patterns over time from class, to race/ethnicity, to religion, based on research on Muslims in Europe. This project demonstrates, however, that the global resurgence of religion does not necessarily mean that individuals from the same religious background with group-based grievances will mobilize around a public religious identity. The study examines how different political opportunity structures (both national and local) and differences in the characteristics of the groups shape how they frame their grievances and mobilize.","crimson_battery","The Incorporation of Religious Minorities in Canada and the United States",
"1441446","EAGER: A Relational Model for Understanding the Use of Research in the Policy Process","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2014","7/1/2016","Roberta Spalter-Roth","VA","George Mason University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$94,163.00 ","Kelly Joyce","rspalter@gmu.edu","4400 UNIVERSITY DR","FAIRFAX","VA","4400 UNIVERSITY DR, FAIRFAX, VA","220304422","7039932295","SBE","1331","7916","$0.00 ","SES-1441446<br/>Roberta Spalter-Roth<br/>Kelly Joyce<br/>George Mason University<br/><br/>The National Science Foundation supports research on a range of policy-relevant topics. For example, its social science research portfolio includes projects on education and learning, immigrations, demography, terrorism, the environment, disasters, crime and criminal justice, marriage and family, social welfare, employment and occupations, the military, health and behavior, and issues associated with cities and urban areas (e.g., homelessness, poverty, and urban and economic development). These studies have the potential to inform domestic and international policy, public debates and practice and some do, but in indirect and non-transparent ways. The PIs plans to further conceptualize and test a new approach, a conceptual model that better captures how social science research is brought into the policy process and practice. The project is transformative in that it does not assume an ""idealized,"" but simplistic, causal model that takes for granted that policymakers will read research in scholarly journals and adopt their methods and findings to craft new policy. Rather than a linear model that starts with the research and ends with new public policy, the researchers propose a relational model based on relationships, strategies, activities, networks, and processes that result in the use of social science research for policy purposes at a variety of policy locations. To test and refine this relational conceptual model, the PIs will convene an interdisciplinary group of social scientists who will provide case studies of both successful (and not so successful) social science researchers whose work has found its way (or not) into the policy process. The case studies will be used to produce a refined model of successful pathways in which social science research can and does inform public policy.<br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/><br/>The project is potentially transformative because rather than examine an ""idealized"" casual model of the impact of research on policy, the project uses cases studies of researchers' experiences to inform an interactive model of human relationships, networks, and social processes that result in the use or the failure to use social science research in a variety of policy situations. The widespread dissemination of a findings has the potential to increase the number of social scientists who are more attuned to considering (1) about their research and findings beyond the academic research community; and (2) in more specific terms how social science research findings can inform public policy and practice.","crimson_battery","EAGER: A Relational Model for Understanding the Use of Research in the Policy Process",
"1338616","Variations in Vulnerability to Victimization: Identifying Individual and Community Factors","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","8/1/2013","8/13/2013","Amy Kate Bailey","IL","University of Illinois at Chicago","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$199,602.00 ","","akbailey@uic.edu","809 S MARSHFIELD","Chicago","IL","809 S MARSHFIELD, Chicago, IL","606124305","3129962862","SBE","1331, 1372","","$0.00 ","SES-1338616<br/>Amy Kate Bailey<br/>University of Illinois at Chicago<br/><br/>Intergroup conflict is typically rooted in competition for some sort of socially valued good. Community-level theories predict that conflict increases when one group threatens the status, authority, or material resources of the other group. That might suggest that the individuals selected as victims would be those whose characteristics pose the greatest threat to prevailing social arrangements -- those who are the most successful. Research on both historical lynching and contemporary bias crimes, however, tells us that it is people who have lower socioeconomic status, fewer apparent social ties, who are chosen as victims, but also tells us that people victimized by more and less severe attacks often differ from each other. This study will help to resolve this tension between theories that explain the emergence of conflict and those that explain both the selection of victims and the severity of their victimization. It will incorporate the social, policy, and economic context of intergroup conflict; the severity of victimization; and the relative and absolute characteristics of victims themselves. It will expand understanding of the role of victim characteristics by allowing the researcher to identify how individual traits are related to victimization itself as well as the severity of attack, once a person has been selected as a potential target of intergroup violence. While lynching is largely an historic practice, victimization based on gender, perceived sexual identity, race/ethnicity, religious adherence, and economic status continues to plague societies around the globe. This project will help reframe our understanding of the dynamics of victimization in multiple ways. The researcher will use historical census records to locate individuals who were threatened with lynching, but not killed, in ten Southern states across a span of 50 years (1882 - 1930). Records for these intended victims, and all other people in their households, will be merged with existing data on people who were lynched, as well as on nonvictim members of their communities. Comparing these groups will allow the researcher to identify the characteristics that put individuals at risk of various levels of victimization. The investigator will also incorporate county-level social, demographic, economic, and political data to determine which community factors placed high and low status people at elevated risk of victimization. Data, including a database and ""case files"" with research notes and historical documents for each case, will be distributed via a public web site.<br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/><br/>This project will promote training and learning by incorporating graduate and undergraduate students at an urban, public university in the conduct, presentation, and publication of research. The quantitative analyses, identifying the characteristics that predicted victimization and its severity, as well as the contextual factors that put individuals with particular characteristics at risk, will help us better understand contemporary bias crime and ethnic conflict. Finally, the interactive elements of the website develops and implements a new model of incorporating broader public participation in the collection of social scientific data, allowing members of the public to conduct their own archival research and contribute to the development of our data. The publicly-available website will allow academics, amateur researchers, and genealogists to access information on lynched and intended victims, and help improve the quality of the data.","crimson_battery","Variations in Vulnerability to Victimization: Identifying Individual and Community Factors",
"1423828","Fields of Study, School-Work Linkages, and Inequality: A Comparative Approach","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","9/2/2014","Thomas DiPrete","NY","Columbia University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$268,807.00 ","","tad61@columbia.edu","2960 Broadway","NEW YORK","NY","2960 Broadway, NEW YORK, NY","100276902","2128546851","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","SES-1423828<br/>Thomas DiPrete<br/>Columbia University<br/><br/>The overall goal of this project is to develop a greater theoretical and empirical understanding of the pathways that lead from educational outcomes to occupational placement. The project pays attention both to the level of education and school-leaving credentials (i.e., diplomas, degrees, and certificates) and to fields of study within these levels. It then analyzes the strength of the link between specific educational outcomes and specific occupations. The research is novel in applying recent developments in multigroup segregation research to the measurement of the strength of linkage between school outcomes and occupations. It uses these techniques to study the pattern of linkage between school and work across a set of countries which differ both in the structure of their educational systems and in the ways that education and training are linked to occupational entry via licensing, apprenticeships, internships, and other formal or informal skill requirements or opportunities for skill acquisition while on the job. It then addresses the question of whether country differences in the structure of school-work linkage produce country differences in the relative pay of occupations and in the overall structure of wage and earnings inequality.<br/><br/>The intellectual merit of the research lies in its potential to significantly increase knowledge of how the structure of linkage between education and the labor market varies, both at different levels of the educational system and across different types of national educational systems. The project employs data from six important countries: the U.S., Germany, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and Brazil. To test hypotheses, the project utilizes segregation measures from the generalized entropy family of segregation meaures. This approach allows an assessment of the relative importance of educational levels and fields of study within levels to the total linkage strength of a country. It also allows a study of the extent of country differences that are structural and the extent of country differences that arise from (compositional) differences in the distribution of educational outcomes and occupational positions across these countries. The research will be novel in determining the extent to which fields of study provide clear pathways to jobs at different educational levels and how the pattern varies cross-nationally. It will highlight routes involving specific fields of study and tertiary credentials whose value in the labor market differs considerably across countries. Such information is of scientific importance for explaining differences in wage and earnings distributions, career mobility, and educational attainment across countries. It also points to potentially important social policies to better realize the potential of varying educational routes within the differing social and economic institutional structures under study in this project. This research product is of particular importance in the U.S., where completion rates in American higher education are relatively low. The research may also improve harmonized educational schemes now widely used in comparative research.","crimson_battery","Fields of Study, School-Work Linkages, and Inequality: A Comparative Approach",
"1459262","Collaborative Research: Family Structure and Inequality in Contemporary America","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/21/2015","Christina Gibson-Davis","NC","Duke University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$50,250.00 ","","cgibson@duke.edu","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710","Durham","NC","2200 W. Main St, Suite 710, Durham, NC","277054010","9196843030","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","In the last three decades, economic inequality among families in the United States has increased. One of the likely drivers of rising inequality is the changing familial landscape, especially the steep decline in the percentage of children living in married-parent families. Notably, other factors related to the structural and economic context of modern American life were also changing and may have also contributed to economic inequality among families. This project analyzes economic inequality among families with children in the contemporary United States. This project will be the first to simultaneously investigate several features of the contemporary American landscape. The goal is to understand 1) how family income and wealth vary by key characteristics of families, such as whether families include one or two parents and, if two parents, whether the parents are married, and 2) how these associations between family characteristics and family economic resources have changed over the time period of 1980-2013. <br/><br/>The data, for the years 1980-2013, come from the Current Population Survey and the Survey of Income and Program Participation. Families with at least one resident child under the age of 18 will be classified into one of seven family types. The study will<br/>decompose changes in family economic resources into between- and within-family type components and estimate income volatility, within family type, using both the standard deviation and permanent and transitory variances of family income. The PIs consider both static measures of, and over-time changes in family structure. This project examines factors that may affect family economic resources that have not been fully explored in previous research, including year-to-year changes in parental wages and earned income, changes in resources that families receive from government programs and tax credits such as the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), and stability in the number of adults living in the family household. Additionally, we will examine differences across families in wealth and debts, in addition to differences in income. Our results will help social scientists understand how changes in American families are related to growing income and wealth inequality, and whether changes in government programs and taxes are widening economic inequalities among children.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Family Structure and Inequality in Contemporary America",
"1357442","Collaborative Research: A New Infrastructure for Monitoring Social Class Networks","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","4/12/2016","Michael Macy","NY","Cornell University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$205,116.00 ","","mwm14@cornell.edu","373 Pine Tree Road","Ithaca","NY","373 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY","148502820","6072555014","SBE","1331","9178, 9251","$0.00 ","SES-1357488<br/>David Grusky<br/>Stanford University<br/><br/>SES-1357442<br/>Michael Macy<br/>Cornell University<br/><br/>Over the last 15 years, an ever larger and more diverse population is choosing to interact using social media that record the digital traces of their communications, a development that opens up unprecedented opportunities to study the network foundation of social class relations. Although there is a long tradition of research examining whether social classes in the United States are well-formed, it has been based exclusively on survey and Census data and, by necessity, has ignored the network foundations of class structure and formation. This research takes advantage of the rising amount of interaction with social media to examine that network structure at population scale. The resulting methods will provide the basis for a new and novel research infrastructure for investigating inter-personal interaction within and between social classes in the United States.<br/><br/>By using data from a complete crawl of U.S. Twitter users, it becomes possible to measure class barriers to interpersonal interaction. The centerpiece of this approach is the development of methods to measure the class situation of users with profile data, lexical analysis of message content, and housing valuations for geo-located users. To supplement and validate these behavioral measures, a survey will be administered to a random sample of network edges. A similar analysis of Facebook users will be carried out. The resulting data will be used to complete the first network-based analyses of the extent and patterning of the U.S. class structure. In conventional ?static analyses? of the class structure, the size of inter-class differences in behaviors and attitudes (e.g., childrearing practices, political attitudes) is emphasized, while the patterning of inter-class contact and networks that link classes together is ignored. The key question, therefore, is whether the proposed network analyses of class yield a different portrait of the structure of social classes than the static analyses that have dominated decades of class research in the U.S. At the same time, some network-based analyses of class have been attempted in the past, analyses that have relied on an idiosyncratic range of network behaviors that may be discerned with survey methods (especially, assortative mating where people marry persons with similar education and occupational characteristics, and intergenerational social mobility). The analyses undertaken here will reveal whether social media reduces class barriers to interaction relative to the level of class homophily (the tendency of people to associate with similar people) revealed in face-to-face networks available in survey data. These analyses will provide the foundation of a new network-based analysis of class structure.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>If class barriers are comparatively weak in on-line interactions, standard measurements of class structure will provide an increasingly misleading portrait of civil society and its inclusiveness. It is also plausible, however, that the powerful search algorithms of online platforms allow people to efficiently cull for alters who are similar to themselves. If the latter proves to be the case, it means that the rise of new social media are, contrary to the conventional view, increasing class homophily and polarizing class relations. The research also has a methodological payoff. Because a network-based analysis of social class structure requires high-quality measurements of the class situation of media users, much of the research will focus on developing the methods that make such measurement possible. The social class of users and alters will be imputed by (a) linking geo-located users to their neighborhoods and housing values, (b) exploiting available profile data, (c) carrying out a lexical analysis of message content, and (d) administering surveys to users. These methods, which may be extended to carry out analogous imputations of race, gender, and other ascribed traits, will be of use to researchers in the social sciences, computer science, information science, and other disciplines facing the stock situation in which direct information on individual traits is scarce. The project will also provide new research opportunities for graduates and undergraduates at Cornell University and Stanford University.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: A New Infrastructure for Monitoring Social Class Networks",
"1459099","The Agrarian Origins of the Economic Growth of Nations","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/1/2015","5/7/2015","Samuel Cohn","TX","Texas A&M University Main Campus","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$94,860.00 ","","profcohn@yahoo.com","400 Harvey Mitchell Pkwy South","College Station","TX","400 Harvey Mitchell Pkwy South, College Station, TX","778454375","9798626777","SBE","1331","9150, 9251","$0.00 ","This project is designed to increase the rates of economic growth in poor nations and reduce levels of global poverty by using historical evidence to document the strategies of growth that were actually used by successful economic developers in earlier historical periods. Most successful developers, notably the U.S., Canada, Australia, Switzerland, France and Scandinavia, achieved their success on the basis of robust agriculture. A critical component of robust agriculture is improving product quality but, to date, quality has been measured through the volume or quantity of agricultural goods exported by any given nation.<br/><br/>We examine the agrarian path to growth by statistical analysis of economic development in the nations of the world 1870-1950. We include a new measure of excellence in agriculture, approval ratings of a nation's products by experts on food such as gourmets and home economists. We use a content analysis of shoppers' guides and cookbooks in five nations (United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Italy) to obtain statistical indicators of whether nations are viewed as having superior or inferior products. We then correlate these excellence measures with both agricultural trade patterns and economic growth. Agricultural excellence is in turn correlated with other measures of social structure such as land tenure patterns and education levels. The overall goal of the project is to assess the role that agricultural product quality had in promoting economic growth in advanced nations with the hope of helping other nations develop successful institutions for converting their own agricultural sectors into engines for long-term, sustainable growth.","crimson_battery","The Agrarian Origins of the Economic Growth of Nations",
"1357230","Fluctuating Family Engagement on Youth Case Outcomes in Social Control Settings","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/15/2014","5/10/2014","Leslie Paik","NY","CUNY City College","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$151,887.00 ","","lpaik@ccny.cuny.edu","Convent Ave at 138th St","New York","NY","Convent Ave at 138th St, New York, NY","100319101","2126505418","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1357230<br/>Leslie Paik<br/>CUNY City College<br/><br/>Family involvement is critical for positive adolescent youths' outcomes in social control settings, but our understanding of how families get involved is still unclear, especially in situations where adolescents are also held responsible for their actions. Judges set conditions for juvenile delinquents to fulfill on their own, but also expect parents to help those youths meet those conditions. Health practitioners encourage adolescents to start managing their health-related conditions such as obesity or diabetes by themselves; yet parents are still involved in buying food for the family, filling prescriptions, or taking youths to appointments. These competing messages can lead to confusion among adolescents, parents and staff as to who is expected to do what, ultimately affecting youths' case outcomes. <br/><br/>This project offers a more nuanced and clearer understanding of family involvement in social control settings by conducting a qualitative comparative study of 60 families in court and health care settings. In looking at how families engage in their youths' cases and the impact of that engagement on the youth's case outcomes over time, the project studies family involvement as a fluid concept shaped by parents' and youths' interactions with staff, their perceptions of the institution and their involvement in other institutions. The study includes interviews with 30 families whose youths have delinquency cases in Family Court and another 30 whose youth go to health institutions for medical conditions such as diabetes or obesity; it also will observe 20 families (10 per setting) over 12 months. The project advances research by providing a new perspective on family responsibility for youth outcomes that more clearly demarcates the parameters of that responsibility, versus that of youths and institutional staff. The comparative focus highlights the organizational context to family engagement and the expanding yet ambiguous scope of parental responsibility in contemporary society. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>Research findings will provide insight for organizations seeking to solicit family involvement in their youths' cases by identifying the mechanisms by which youth and families might engage, disengage or reengage in institutional interventions. They also will illuminate the ways in which racial, gender and class inequalities can be perpetuated through these institutions and people's general mistrust of such institutions is fostered.","crimson_battery","Fluctuating Family Engagement on Youth Case Outcomes in Social Control Settings",
"1458953","A Panel Study of the Dynamics of Change in Egypt and Turkey","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2015","9/8/2015","Mansoor Moaddel","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$356,794.00 ","","moaddel@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","People's sociopolitical and cultural views change as a result of their experience. An important component of this experience is the outbreak of major events in their lives. These events may be personal, like getting married or divorce, the birth of one's child or the loss of a loved one, starting a new career or losing a job. Life-changing events may also happen at a broader societal level, including a sudden shift in the economic conditions, a major societal upheaval or revolutionary development, sudden changes in the government through a military coup, or political repression by the government or an act of violence perpetrated by terror groups. Such events may reinforce or challenge cherished beliefs, causing a shift in people's orientation toward either conservatism or liberalism. In the contemporary Middle East, comparative historical studies of ideological production and cross-national values surveys have shown associations between changes in social conditions and changes in the dominant sociopolitical discourses and people?s value orientations It is, however, unclear how changes in these conditions explain changes in discourses and values. <br/><br/>In prior research comparative surveys were carried out in Egypt in 2011 and Turkey in 2013, using a nationally representative sample of more than 3,000 adults in each country. This project will re-interview the same respondents in order to assess how changes in their life conditions and the outbreak of events that transpired since the last surveys affected their values and political behavior. This project will contribute to a mechanismic explanation of change in values and political engagement by launching a panel study in Egypt and Turkey, where adequate infrastructure for survey research is available. This panel study will (1) explain changes in sociopolitical and cultural values; (2) examine how variation in participation in such activities as peaceful demonstrations, political protests, and political violence is linked to changes in (a) inter-group relations, (b) identity and framing, (c) attitudes toward the West and liberal values, (d) religious fundamentalism, (e) dysphoric emotions or personal efficacy, and (f) sources of news information (the Internet, satellite TV, mobiles); (3) assess how people's perceptions of corruption and trustworthiness of public officials are linked to political action and conflict; and (4) evaluate the implications of this study for peace and national security. This project will also contribute to survey methodology by (1) including a new Event History Calendar in the questionnaire, and (2) assessing the effects of privacy during the interview and interviewer characteristics on respondents.","crimson_battery","A Panel Study of the Dynamics of Change in Egypt and Turkey",
"1625703","School Safety, Security, and Educational Progress","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2016","7/20/2016","Anthony Peguero","VA","Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$124,492.00 ","","anthony.peguero@vt.edu","Sponsored Programs 0170","BLACKSBURG","VA","Sponsored Programs 0170, BLACKSBURG, VA","240610001","5402315281","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1625703 <br/>Anthony A. Peguero <br/>Virginia Tech <br/><br/>As the United States continues to be increasingly immersed in a global competitive market, ensuring the educational progress of all youth, as well as competitive and innovative workforce, contributes to the nation's economic growth and sustainability. Moreover, adult socioeconomic disadvantages and advantages faced can be often traced to youth differential educational experiences, achievement, attainment, and progress. It has become clear that school safety is fundamental for facilitating learning and positive educational outcomes for youth and increasing school security measures as well as stringent control practices have become a common as an approach towards school safety. But, there is growing scrutiny that school surveillance and security practices may be conditioning youth to interpret surveillance, law enforcement presence, and juvenile and criminal justice system interventions as a ""normal"" part of the school learning environment or experience for all youth. Some researchers denote that harsh or stringent school safety or social control policies are having detrimental educational consequences for marginalized youth, such as racial and ethnic minority youth and the children of immigrants. Considering that it is projected that the youth population will become mostly compromised of racial and ethnic minorities as well as one in three youth will have at least one immigrant parent, understanding the relationship between school safety, security, and educational progress for the fastest growing segments of the United States youth population is imperative. <br/><br/>Of course, safety is paramount for learning and educational outcomes for all youth. There is some disagreement, however, if this current approach of increased social control within schools is ensuring educational progress or success, especially for marginalized and vulnerable youth. Thus, this research will draw from three nationally representative data (School Survey on Crime, Safety and Educational Longitudinal Study of 2002, and Common Core Data) as well as incorporate multilevel statistical analyses in order to further our knowledge about the relationship between school safety and educational progress by exploring two broad research questions. First, how are school safety and security policies influencing school-level educational progress as well as the implications for racial, ethnic, and immigration educational inequalities? Second, how are school safety and security policies influencing student-level educational progress, especially for racial and ethnic minority youth and the children of immigrants? Although security measures and control practices have become ubiquitous within schools, there is limited knowledge about how securing schools is contributing to educational progress and success, in particular for racial and ethnic minority youth and the children of immigrants. This proposed research seeks to contribute to developing knowledge about safety, security, and educational progress within the United States school system.","crimson_battery","School Safety, Security, and Educational Progress",
"1402515","EAGER: Place Attachment and Collective Action: The Changing Landscape of Urban Neighborhoods","SES","SOCIOLOGY","6/15/2014","5/28/2014","Todd Shaw","SC","University of South Carolina at Columbia","Standard Grant","Patricia White","5/31/2017","$163,407.00 ","Michael Hodge, Kirk Foster, Barbara Combs, Desiree Pedescleaux","shawtc@mailbox.sc.edu","Sponsored Awards Management","COLUMBIA","SC","Sponsored Awards Management, COLUMBIA, SC","292080001","8037777093","SBE","1331","7916, 9150","$0.00 ","SES-1402515<br/>Todd Shaw<br/>Barbara Combs<br/>Kirk Foster<br/>Michael Hodge<br/>Desiree Pedescleaux<br/>University of South Carolina at Columbia<br/><br/>This proposal requests support for an Early Concept Grant for Exploratory Research (EAGER) for a one year pilot study that tests a new model for understanding how group or neighborhood identify impacts civic engagement and collective action by residents. The researchers propose a model that argues that geographic dispersion (an ongoing feature of minority neighborhoods) impacts the length of residence and how rooted residents are in their particular neighborhood. These factors are positively related to the level of the concept of linked fate (we are all in this together whether or not we are residents of the same neighborhood), attachment to the neighborhood and whether residents assume their neighborhoods' identify. These dynamics then contribute to trust and the level of cooperation among residents that in turn determines participation in collective action on behalf of the neighborhood. To test these basic assumptions, the research team will conduct a pilot study of two primarily African American historic neighborhoods in Atlanta, Georgia--the Old Fourth Ward and the West End -- that have undergone gentrification, with significantly diverse outcomes. The Old Fourth Ward over the last three decades has been transformed from a historically middle class black community to a neighborhood that is now 30 percent white, with a significant rise in median income. On the other hand, the West End, a black working class/lower income community, witnessed a 39 percent decrease in white residents, now has a population that is only 2 percent white, and experienced a modest decline in median income. These two communities offer the opportunity to study African American's perceptions of the changes that have occurred in two of their communities (that reflect trends in other such communities in the South) and responses (civic collective action) to these changes. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>The project has significant broader impacts. Specifically, it (1) is an interdisciplinary collaboration between two Research-I, majority-white universities and two historically black liberals arts colleges; (2) mentors and substantively involves the participation of graduate and undergraduate students from underrepresented groups; (3) provides student and faculty researchers and the broader public with a robust dataset that has potential multi-disciplinary interest; (4) creates an opportunity to disseminate research findings directly relevant to the life of two vibrant urban neighborhoods; and (5) makes a unique theoretical and methodological contributions to the literature on the changing social and civic spaces of urban communities. While policymakers have long argued that devoting public and private resources to building local capacity can tackle urban poverty and spur economic redevelopment, e.g., Community Action Programs, Enterprise Zones, and Empowerment Zones. The study?s results can help us better understand the role that heterogeneous relationships among neighborhood residents play in successful communities? problem-solving.","crimson_battery","EAGER: Place Attachment and Collective Action: The Changing Landscape of Urban Neighborhoods",
"1419517","The Study of Social Structure, Identity, and Exchange","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2014","9/25/2015","Jan Stets","CA","University of California-Riverside","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2017","$284,519.00 ","Scott Savage, Peter Burke","jan.stets@ucr.edu","Office of Research","RIVERSIDE","CA","Office of Research, RIVERSIDE, CA","925211000","9518275535","SBE","1331","9178, 9179, 9251","$0.00 ","This research examines the broader scientific question regarding how social structure and human agency interact to affect how people negotiate for resources in small exchange networks as well as the ties that develop between individuals in those networks. Specifically, this research studies how those in three- and four-person networks bargain over resources, and how their bargaining is modified to produce more (or less) equality and more (or less) solidarity when their fairness identity (how fair they perceive themselves to be, ranging from low to high) is activated in a situation. The research also will manipulate whether the fairness identity is verified or not verified during the bargaining situation to examine the negotiation strategies that individuals devise in response to the identity feedback. <br/><br/>The principal investigators conduct three experiments over two years. In two of the experiments, they create a power-imbalanced network and examine how different levels of power and different levels of fairness influence whether individuals come to divide resources equally. They also examine how different distributions of the fairness identity across positions in the network affect the division of resources. In the third experiment, they create power-balanced networks of three- and four-persons to study how structurally induced exclusion modifies the effects of the fairness identity on how people negotiate. In all three studies, individuals experience identity verification or non-verification to track how this influences their behavioral responses. Additionally, the research tracks the equality in outcomes and whether social bonds are forged among individuals. <br/><br/>Findings from this research have broad implications for understanding inequality in our society. The results will tell us how aspects of the individual (here, one's fairness identity) modify how resources are negotiated (either exacerbating or suppressing the relative deprivation that can result from these negotiations) as well as influence the development of positive ties such as trust and solidarity. More generally, the results will lend insight into how one's identity influences outcomes in a situation by modifying the effects that emerge on the basis of one's position of power. These findings are particularly valuable to social scientists, public policy analysts, and grass-roots organizations that examine and want to reduce inequality in society. Educationally, this research also advances undergraduate and graduate training in research, as students gain expertise in experimental design and theory testing.","crimson_battery","The Study of Social Structure, Identity, and Exchange",
"1528422","Research Coordination Network: Fostering Cross-Disciplinary Research on Energy Development","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2015","7/10/2015","Jeffrey Jacquet","SD","South Dakota State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2018","$282,723.00 ","Julia Haggerty","jeffrey.jacquet@sdstate.edu","Administration Lane","Brookings","SD","Administration Lane, Brookings, SD","570070001","6056886696","SBE","1331","9150, 9179","$0.00 ","SES-1528422<br/>Jeffrey Jacquet <br/>South Dakota State University<br/><br/>The rapid proliferation and intensification of energy development across North America has generated new research about social and economic impacts to host communities from a diversity of academic disciplines. This diversity represents the multi-dimensional nature of social impacts from energy development but demands coordination and integration among social science perspectives. This research network expands the capacity of social scientists to measure and analyze the impacts of energy development in host landscapes and communities through the development of shared conceptual frameworks and metrics. Based at South Dakota State University and supported by Montana State University, the Research Coordination Network (RCN)features a steering committee of leading energy development experts from multiple social science disciplines. Using in-person and virtual forums, the network will support researchers in discussing, evaluating and coordinating social science energy research. The network will deliver a cluster of curricular resources directed at non-expert audiences such as high school and university undergraduate students, local officials, and affected residents. The RCN will provide policy makers, community officials, and energy company officials with an integrated social science approach to understand and mitigate adverse effects of energy development, while specific protocols are identified to encourage participation of diverse and underrepresented populations. A strategic project advisory board drawn from industry and government will help the network consider how research can be more relevant and defensible to decision makers, enabling better informed, more effective energy development planning and policy.<br/><br/>This RCN is driven by the following hypothesis: The measurement and analysis of social impacts can be coordinated across diverse forms of energy development and academic discipline, and doing so will increase the utility of social science and improve societal capacity to address the unprecedented opportunities and challenges of the current energy transformation. The goals of this research network are to 1) foster a diverse cross-disciplinary research community; 2) develop and promote a set of data collection standards, framing concepts, and longitudinal design to allow for comparison of data acquired across energy landscapes; and 3) disseminate syntheses and data and design standards to inform policy dialogues and undergraduate curricula. This project will advance scientific understanding in the following ways: (1) Networked scholars will foster the compatibility of currently disparate social, economic and geographic energy-impact theoretical frameworks through new synthetic, conceptual work. (2) Strategic planning of new data collection and analytical techniques will achieve novel discoveries across multiple settings and fill chronic gaps in social science energy research. (3) Appropriate standardization of research design across regions and disciplines will increase compatibility and comparability of data and results, reducing redundancy and increasing robustness of collected data and reliability of results.","crimson_battery","Research Coordination Network: Fostering Cross-Disciplinary Research on Energy Development",
"1260342","Status and Behavior","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/15/2013","6/29/2015","Murray Webster","NC","University of North Carolina at Charlotte","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$230,735.00 ","Lisa Walker","mawebste@uncc.edu","9201 University City Boulevard","CHARLOTTE","NC","9201 University City Boulevard, CHARLOTTE, NC","282230001","7046871888","SBE","1331","9178, 9251","$0.00 ","SES-1250342<br/>Murray Webster<br/>Lisa Walker<br/>University of North Carolina, Charlotte<br/><br/>This project develops and elaborates theories of status generalization. These theories describe how status characteristics that confer advantages and disadvantages in the larger society (such as gender, education, or age) get ""imported"" and affect dimensions of power and prestige (such as participation rates, influence, and leadership choices) in face to face task groups. The work has led to theoretically guided interventions to reduce or eliminate unwanted status generalization from race, gender, ethnicity, and other status characteristics in schools and organizations. A previous NSF funded grant developed this research by adding effects of behavior patterns (such as deference and assertiveness) to status effects. This new project further expands the scope of this line of inquiry to include interactions of cultural beliefs (such as appropriate behaviors associated with gender) with status and behavior. The research will investigate how various combinations of status and behavior affect the formation of performance expectations within task work. The study will employ a complex experimental design to explore these relationships. Participants in the experiment will be male and female paid volunteers recruited from large classes. <br/><br/>Broader Impact<br/><br/>Results of this research contribute to the status generalization theoretical research program and can lay a foundation for further investigations of beliefs, structure and behavior. They will suggest new ways to control status effects by adding behavior and making cultural beliefs salient. They also help track changing cultural beliefs, such as possible decline in the significance of gender for task focused interaction. Findings also have implications for developing new experimental techniques that will be used by other investigators, training a graduate student in all stages of theory building, experimental design and operations, and data analysis and archiving. The project also will train undergraduates in recruiting, computer scheduling and face to face interviewing.","crimson_battery","Status and Behavior",
"1357264","Job Loss and Unemployment: Differing Social and Economic Costs","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/15/2014","5/10/2014","Sarah Damaske","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$151,478.00 ","","sad32@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1357264<br/>Sarah A. Damaske<br/>Pennsylvania State University, University Park <br/><br/>Studies of gender differences in experiences of job loss are almost entirely absent in academic research, but the Great Recession of 2007-2009 raised questions about differences in men's and women's job loss experiences. The Great Recession was popularly dubbed a ""man-cession"" by media outlets, because, initially, men's job losses were twice as large as women's. Although men lost more jobs than women did, women experienced greater job loss after the ""conclusion"" of the recession and, at first, recovered jobs at a slower rate than men. Moreover, women reported greater material hardship than men in the wake of the Great Recession. The aim of this study is to determine whether job loss and its effects are experienced differently across gender, and, if so, how. The primary data for this study will come from 100 qualitative interviews. Qualitative interviews will be conducted with 100 men and women (50 each) who experienced the loss of a full-time job between the years 2007-2014. The project will identify men and women who are married or partnered, between the ages of 28 to 55 (those often termed ""Generation X""), and live with a child under the age of 18. These qualitative interviews will allow for an in-depth investigation of how job loss affects men?s and women?s work pathways, their perceptions of the workforce, their labor force attachment, and their attitudes and beliefs about their household labor. <br/><br/>This project will address three main interrelated research questions: 1. After job loss, do structural barriers to work differentially influence men's and women's job search and their job search success? Theories of employment that look at the ""demand side"", i.e. the needs of hiring organizations, point to women's and men's likelihood to occupy different types of jobs and the continued wage gap between women and men as deterrents to women's paid employment. These factors may influence unemployment. 2. After job loss, do labor force attachment levels and gender attitudes about work-family responsibilities differentially influence men's and women's likelihood to start a job search? ""Supply side"" theories of employment, i.e. explanations focused on the employees, point to differences in labor force attachment and work-family responsibilities to explain differences in women's and men's paid employment. These factors may also influence unemployment. 3. Do experiences of job loss differ across gender, class and race? Intersectional theories contend that race, class, and gender intersect to shape experiences of employment, suggesting that unemployment will also vary across gender, class and race. This project will investigate if and how all of these factors shape men's and women's experiences of job loss and unemployment. Moreover, while theories explaining gender differences in employment may hold true to unemployment experiences, unemployment is a volatile experience that may uniquely disrupt a person's interaction with the labor market and change the meaning of and motivation for work, thus, a detailed study of this process is necessary.<br/><br/>Job loss and unemployment continue to be one of the most pressing issues in the United States: unemployment remains high and more than 4 million Americans have been out of work for six months or longer (Bureau of Labor Statistics 2013). The project adds gender to current research of job loss and unemployment--an important addition given that women experience unemployment at roughly the same rates as men yet are vastly understudied. By examining the processes through which men and women move into and out of the labor market, this project will differentiate routes that are more successful from those that lead to continued unemployment or to dropping out of the workforce. This will lead to policy suggestions that can be more closely tailored to improve men's and women's life chances in 21st century post-industrial economies.","crimson_battery","Job Loss and Unemployment: Differing Social and Economic Costs",
"1460434","Economic and Geopolitical Crises and Waves of Social Unrest","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/1/2015","3/25/2015","Beverly Silver","MD","Johns Hopkins University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$254,554.00 ","","silver@jhu.edu","3400 N CHARLES ST","Baltimore","MD","3400 N CHARLES ST, Baltimore, MD","212182608","4105168668","SBE","1331","9179, 9251","$0.00 ","This project will shed light on the post-2008 global upsurge of labor and social unrest by comparing it to analogous historical periods from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. How is social unrest linked to economic and geopolitical crises? The project creates a new data base using digital newspapers of The New York Times and The Guardian (London) from 1851 forward. Thus, it situates the analysis of the current global wave of social protest in a much longer temporal frame and broader geographical scope than is normally done. It will make it possible to directly address and resolve debates about whether or not the current wave of protest is historically significant and novel. The new database will be collected and disseminated in a way that will be useful for researchers and teachers. The project design includes a significant training component, providing a team of students with the opportunity to gain professional level research training and hands-on research experience. <br/><br/>Because of its intensity and global spread, scholarly debates on the causes and significance of the recent protest wave have mushroomed, including debates about the class composition of the participants and the causal mechanisms linking unrest to economic crises and geopolitical transformations. Main hypotheses of this project include examination of whether or not: (1) global waves of social unrest, analogous to the present in terms of intensity and geographical spread, have occurred only rarely, and only in periods of world hegemonic crisis and transition--that is, periods of intense and intertwined economic and geopolitical crises, such as inter-state and intra-state warfare); (2) the post-2008 wave of global social protest has strong analogies with the wave of unrest that took place during the late 19th and early 20th century crisis of British world hegemony; and (3) labor unrest is an important component of both waves of global social unrest. A particular feature of the current period is the large role played by workers who are unable to find stable wage employment (precariously employed, unemployed, underemployed, etc.) and who have no significant alternative (non-wage) means of livelihood. <br/>&#8195;","crimson_battery","Economic and Geopolitical Crises and Waves of Social Unrest",
"1459631","Collaborative Research: Family Structure and Inequality in Contemporary America","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/21/2015","Christine Percheski","IL","Northwestern University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$69,905.00 ","","c-percheski@northwestern.edu","1801 Maple Ave.","Evanston","IL","1801 Maple Ave., Evanston, IL","602013149","8474913003","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","In the last three decades, economic inequality among families in the United States has increased. One of the likely drivers of rising inequality is the changing familial landscape, especially the steep decline in the percentage of children living in married-parent families. Notably, other factors related to the structural and economic context of modern American life were also changing and may have also contributed to economic inequality among families. This project analyzes economic inequality among families with children in the contemporary United States. This project will be the first to simultaneously investigate several features of the contemporary American landscape. The goal is to understand 1) how family income and wealth vary by key characteristics of families, such as whether families include one or two parents and, if two parents, whether the parents are married, and 2) how these associations between family characteristics and family economic resources have changed over the time period of 1980-2013. <br/><br/>The data, for the years 1980-2013, come from the Current Population Survey and the Survey of Income and Program Participation. Families with at least one resident child under the age of 18 will be classified into one of seven family types. The study will<br/>decompose changes in family economic resources into between- and within-family type components and estimate income volatility, within family type, using both the standard deviation and permanent and transitory variances of family income. The PIs consider both static measures of, and over-time changes in family structure. This project examines factors that may affect family economic resources that have not been fully explored in previous research, including year-to-year changes in parental wages and earned income, changes in resources that families receive from government programs and tax credits such as the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), and stability in the number of adults living in the family household. Additionally, we will examine differences across families in wealth and debts, in addition to differences in income. Our results will help social scientists understand how changes in American families are related to growing income and wealth inequality, and whether changes in government programs and taxes are widening economic inequalities among children.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Family Structure and Inequality in Contemporary America",
"1458989","Collaborative Research: Women's Empowerment, Food Security and Farm Productivity","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/20/2015","Elizabeth Ransom","VA","University of Richmond","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$84,887.00 ","","eransom@richmond.edu","202 MARYLAND HALL","RICHMOND","VA","202 MARYLAND HALL, RICHMOND, VA","231730001","8042898100","SBE","1331","9150, 9251","$0.00 ","This project investigates the implications of development initiatives that seek to empower women and enhance gender equity in developing countries, using the dairy sector in Uganda as a field site. In Uganda, as in many developing countries, women dominate the agricultural labor force, yet gender-based inequalities constrain their ability to enhance farm productivity and profitability. A key development strategy to close the gender gap focuses on empowering women within agricultural value chains, the wide-ranging set of activities that connect farmers to markets. Yet little is known about the effects of value chain development initiatives for empowering female farmers and addressing gender-based inequalities. This research uses a value chain approach and geospatial analysis to examine gender mainstreaming efforts in Uganda by comparing dairy value chains with active gender and-development programs with dairy value chains that do not have gender-specific programs. The results from this study will provide a better understanding of how female farmer participation in the marketplace facilitates women?s empowerment and improves farm productivity and food security in developing countries.<br/><br/>The objectives of this research are to: 1) Identify and measure how gender mainstreaming efforts affect women's participation in the value chain, gender equity in the household, and gender equity in the community; 2) Analyze the spatial and geographic consequences of women's empowerment at the individual, household, and community levels; and 3) Evaluate how examining gender within a spatial context assists in decision making for development programs. To accomplish this, a mixed method research approach will be used including: 1) surveys of female and male farmers engaged in the value chain; 2) in-depth interviews with female and male farmers from households engaged in the value chain, as well as key stakeholders throughout the value chain; 3) geospatial analysis; and 4) a randomized experiment. By conducting a theory directed, empirically grounded analysis of pro-poor value chain projects, this research can inform and shape the decisions of donor organizations, development practitioners, the private sector, and policy makers interested in targeting vulnerable populations through market based initiatives, as well as academics working in the areas of agriculture, gender, and development.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Women's Empowerment, Food Security and Farm Productivity",
"1457954","Immigrants, Entrepreneurs, and Urban Redevelopment in the U.S.","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/15/2015","3/17/2015","Angie Chung","NY","SUNY at Albany","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$137,314.00 ","Jan Lin, Sookhee Oh","aychung@albany.edu","1400 WASHINGTON AVE","Albany","NY","1400 WASHINGTON AVE, Albany, NY","122220100","5184374550","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","Ethnic enclaves are no longer socially isolated from the mainstream economy and may hold the key to reversing the economic decline of urban areas or aggravating social inequality within the metropolis. Even so, research on the economic development of U.S. immigration gateways and ?global cities? has paid scant attention to how new immigrant elites in these enclaves mobilize transnational capital and work in collaboration with public officials and economic development organizations to promote land intensification and development in economically-stagnant neighborhoods. This research examines the emergence of pro-growth coalitions made up of immigrant entrepreneurs, political leaders, large-scale developers, and transnational investors from the Pacific Rim that have built their fortunes around luxury condos, office buildings, high-end restaurants, and other profitable ventures in fast-growing ethnic enclave economies. It will evaluate how such economic development ties in with the commercialization of culture, the privatization and fortressing of public spaces, environmental damage, heightened segregation between the rich and the poor, and impacts on workers and residents, The study involves an intensive case study of two highly-developed ethnic enclave economies in the Korean entrepreneurial center of Koreatown and the Chinese core of Monterey Park, Los Angeles--both of which have experienced rapid growth and (re)development as a result of their ties to the global economy. The findings will inform local government officials and policymakers regarding working with immigrant leaders on issues of economic development and devising strategies for balanced growth to reduce overdevelopment, environmental damage and interracial conflict.<br/><br/>The main objective of this project is to identify the main characteristics of the immigrant elite, their strategies for promoting their agenda to the local government, and the resulting impact on social relations and inequality in a racially-diverse metropolis. Data come from 120 semi-structured interviews with the major leaders for and against development, including transnational agents, local elite, public and quasi-public authorities, community-based organizations, and residents/ activists. Data also include census and other secondary materials, which describe the steady progression of enclave growth, the political characteristics and influence of residents and businesses, and the demographic backdrop for gentrification, displacement and potential neighborhood conflicts. The findings will advance understanding of the politics of land use, investment and development which are increasingly linked to economies beyond U.S. borders as a result of real estate investment from overseas, and how this can delocalize decision-making processes away from municipal governments and complicate local growth control efforts.<br/><br/>&#8195;","crimson_battery","Immigrants, Entrepreneurs, and Urban Redevelopment in the U.S.",
"1459396","Changes in Family Systems and Child Well-Being","SES","SOCIOLOGY","4/1/2015","3/13/2015","Valarie King","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$83,453.00 ","","vek1@psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","More than 30% of all U.S. children will spend at least some time growing up in a stepfamily. Earlier research has raised concerns about the implications of stepfamily formation for children's well-being, suggesting that children in stepfamilies generally have lower well-being than children in households with two biological parents. More recent research suggests that there is greater variability in stepfamily functioning and in the quality of parent-child relationships. Recent research has elucidated factors associated with positive relationships between stepfathers and stepchildren, yet we still know very little about how the transition to stepfamily living affects the quality of mother-child relationships-a factor known to influence children's well-being. <br/><br/>The proposed study draws on two waves of data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Adolescent Health. The primary aim is to understand how children's ties to their biological mothers are influenced by the entrance of stepfathers. To the extent that children's ties to mothers are weakened or negatively affected by the entrance of stepfathers, there is cause for concern. If, however, the entrance of a stepfather improves the mother-child relationship, then child well-being may be enhanced. Multiple dimensions of mother-child relationships (emotional closeness, the frequency of shared activities, open communication, maternal availability, and mothers' expectations for their children's educational attainment) will be considered. The study will compare children living with married and cohabiting stepfathers to see whether parents' marital status makes a difference. The study will also test factors that are hypothesized to moderate the influence of stepfathers on mother-child ties, including race and child gender. This project focuses on children who gain a stepfather during adolescence. As children enter adolescence, many families experience declines in parental involvement and increases in parent-child conflict. These processes can be exacerbated in stepfamilies, especially those formed during this time. However, close, supportive parent-child relationships are thought to be especially important for adolescents in stepfamilies because they are more vulnerable to peer influence and are at greater risk for poor outcomes. The project will expand the scope of prior research in the following ways: (1) The study will examine families before and after they transition to a stepfamily, an improvement over most previous studies, which have relied on cross-sectional data or have observed stepfamilies only after their formation. By controlling for mother-child ties before the entrance of the stepfather-a potentially important source of selection into new partnerships-the study design supports stronger inferences about the effects of a new stepfather on mothers and their children. (2) The study will include cohabiting stepfamilies, a family form we know little about. (3) The study will incorporate multiple dimensions of the mother-child relationship as well as potential moderating factors, going well beyond what has been examined in prior research. <br/><br/>The findings can aid in the creation of more effective interventions and policies to promote positive stepfamily functioning and enhance the well-being of children growing up in stepfamilies. These findings should be especially relevant to practitioners who have been developing programs in recent years to improve family functioning and parent-child relationships in stepfamilies. The project will also facilitate the professional development, training, and mentoring of graduate students who participate in this research.","crimson_battery","Changes in Family Systems and Child Well-Being",
"1459013","Collaborative Research: Women's Empowerment, Food Security and Farm Productivity","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/20/2015","Carmen Bain","IA","Iowa State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$75,333.00 ","","cbain@iastate.edu","1138 Pearson","AMES","IA","1138 Pearson, AMES, IA","500112207","5152945225","SBE","1331","9150, 9251","$0.00 ","This project investigates the implications of development initiatives that seek to empower women and enhance gender equity in developing countries, using the dairy sector in Uganda as a field site. In Uganda, as in many developing countries, women dominate the agricultural labor force, yet gender-based inequalities constrain their ability to enhance farm productivity and profitability. A key development strategy to close the gender gap focuses on empowering women within agricultural value chains, the wide-ranging set of activities that connect farmers to markets. Yet little is known about the effects of value chain development initiatives for empowering female farmers and addressing gender-based inequalities. This research uses a value chain approach and geospatial analysis to examine gender mainstreaming efforts in Uganda by comparing dairy value chains with active gender and-development programs with dairy value chains that do not have gender-specific programs. The results from this study will provide a better understanding of how female farmer participation in the marketplace facilitates women?s empowerment and improves farm productivity and food security in developing countries.<br/><br/>The objectives of this research are to: 1) Identify and measure how gender mainstreaming efforts affect women's participation in the value chain, gender equity in the household, and gender equity in the community; 2) Analyze the spatial and geographic consequences of women's empowerment at the individual, household, and community levels; and 3) Evaluate how examining gender within a spatial context assists in decision making for development programs. To accomplish this, a mixed method research approach will be used including: 1) surveys of female and male farmers engaged in the value chain; 2) in-depth interviews with female and male farmers from households engaged in the value chain, as well as key stakeholders throughout the value chain; 3) geospatial analysis; and 4) a randomized experiment. By conducting a theory directed, empirically grounded analysis of pro-poor value chain projects, this research can inform and shape the decisions of donor organizations, development practitioners, the private sector, and policy makers interested in targeting vulnerable populations through market based initiatives, as well as academics working in the areas of agriculture, gender, and development.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Women's Empowerment, Food Security and Farm Productivity",
"1459214","Collaborative Research: Availability of Employment Opportunities and Recidivism Outcomes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/24/2015","Paul Bellair","OH","Ohio State University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$74,284.00 ","","bellair.1@osu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","Columbus","OH","Office of Sponsored Programs, Columbus, OH","432101016","6146888735","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","The U.S. prison population continues to grow and devising policies to reduce recidivism and criminal justice expenditures is now a major bi-partisan priority. Policy makers are focusing on improving employment outcomes for former prisoners as a way of reducing recidivism and generating tax revenue. We propose a detailed study of the relationship between employment timing and recidivism. We focus on whether employment that occurs rapidly after release (within the first three months) is more effective in reducing the likelihood of recidivism than remaining unemployed or taking a longer period of time to find a job. Our project also examines the characteristics of the broader economy such as the local unemployment rate and the kinds of job openings available in the local labor market, characteristics often associated with rapid and successful job search. The analysis will employ appropriate statistical techniques and is based on recidivism data collected from the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction (ODRC) and employment data from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS).<br/><br/>To address our research question, we gather and construct a unique set of data and perform an analysis of recidivism outcomes. Our data task involves gathering administrative records including Unemployment Insurance (UI), Employer Enterprise (EE) and Adult Workforce Education (AWE) data created by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS), and matching them with the records of four representative samples of Ohio state prisoners (previously gathered, geocoded, and merged with census tract/block group data) from the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction (ODRC). Additional records pertaining to mental health status, verbal ability, and work assignment in prison available from ODRC will be gathered and merged to supplement pre-existing collections. Our analysis task involves analyzing recidivism outcomes (parole violations, arrest, parole revocation, and re-incarceration for new crime) with careful scrutiny of the independent and joint influences of (a) the timing and quality of employment experiences and (b) local employment opportunity (unemployment, presence of low skill employment opportunity) and (c) concentrated disadvantage in the neighborhood (block group, tract, county). The overall goal is to assess the unique contribution that timing of employment plays in reducing prison recidivism, contributing to the reintegration of ex-offenders into the wider society.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Availability of Employment Opportunities and Recidivism Outcomes",
"1459185","Collaborative Research: Availability of Employment Opportunities and Recidivism Outcomes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2015","4/24/2015","Robert Apel","NJ","Rutgers University Newark","Standard Grant","Patricia White","4/30/2017","$50,058.00 ","","robert.apel@rutgers.edu","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206","Newark","NJ","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206, Newark, NJ","71021896","9739720283","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","The U.S. prison population continues to grow and devising policies to reduce recidivism and criminal justice expenditures is now a major bi-partisan priority. Policy makers are focusing on improving employment outcomes for former prisoners as a way of reducing recidivism and generating tax revenue. We propose a detailed study of the relationship between employment timing and recidivism. We focus on whether employment that occurs rapidly after release (within the first three months) is more effective in reducing the likelihood of recidivism than remaining unemployed or taking a longer period of time to find a job. Our project also examines the characteristics of the broader economy such as the local unemployment rate and the kinds of job openings available in the local labor market, characteristics often associated with rapid and successful job search. The analysis will employ appropriate statistical techniques and is based on recidivism data collected from the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction (ODRC) and employment data from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS).<br/><br/>To address our research question, we gather and construct a unique set of data and perform an analysis of recidivism outcomes. Our data task involves gathering administrative records including Unemployment Insurance (UI), Employer Enterprise (EE) and Adult Workforce Education (AWE) data created by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS), and matching them with the records of four representative samples of Ohio state prisoners (previously gathered, geocoded, and merged with census tract/block group data) from the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction (ODRC). Additional records pertaining to mental health status, verbal ability, and work assignment in prison available from ODRC will be gathered and merged to supplement pre-existing collections. Our analysis task involves analyzing recidivism outcomes (parole violations, arrest, parole revocation, and re-incarceration for new crime) with careful scrutiny of the independent and joint influences of (a) the timing and quality of employment experiences and (b) local employment opportunity (unemployment, presence of low skill employment opportunity) and (c) concentrated disadvantage in the neighborhood (block group, tract, county). The overall goal is to assess the unique contribution that timing of employment plays in reducing prison recidivism, contributing to the reintegration of ex-offenders into the wider society.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Availability of Employment Opportunities and Recidivism Outcomes",
"1151449","CAREER: ""Crime Victimization Patterns in American Cities""","SES","SOCIOLOGY, LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","4/15/2012","5/8/2012","Andrew Papachristos","CT","Yale University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","3/31/2017","$400,000.00 ","","andrew.papachristos@yale.edu","Office of Sponsored Projects","New Haven","CT","Office of Sponsored Projects, New Haven, CT","65208327","2037854689","SBE","1331, 1372","0000, 1045, 7956, 8605, 9178, OTHR","$0.00 ","SES-1151449<br/>Andrew Papachristos<br/>Yale University<br/><br/>ABSTRACT<br/><br/>CAREER: Crime Victimization Patterns in American Cities<br/><br/>This research explores the importance of social networks for individual victimization by analyzing the ways social networks and an individual's position within social networks influence the probability of being a victim of homicide or violent crime. The project is based on a comparative case study of violent crime patterns in four U.S. cities: Chicago, Boston, Cincinnati, and San Francisco. Particular attention is directed towards understanding how the topology of social networks influences the spread of crime and violence within a population, maintaining that this diffusion of crime and violence can be more fully explained by the structure of social networks than by individual or neighborhood attributes. To that end, the project is divided into two inter-related studies. The first phase focuses on individual networks at the core of inter-personal violence. By analyzing the social networks of individuals in these four cities it examines (a) how an individual's position within a social network influence his likelihood of being shot or the victim of violent crime, (b) whether or not certain types of networks are more conducive to the diffusion of violence than others, and (c) the extent to which certain network positions are more susceptible to victimization than others. The second phase focuses on how three specific ecological contexts (the city, the neighborhood, the gang) may foster or constrain particular types of social relationships. <br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/>This project seeks to inform policy and violence prevention efforts by determining strategic points of intervention. Findings regarding the role of different types of networks and the precise patterns of violence might help identify individuals and groups most at risk of victimization. Findings might be of interest to the law enforcement community, social service agencies, urban planners, policy makers, and the general public.","crimson_battery","CAREER: ""Crime Victimization Patterns in American Cities""",
"1520778","EAGER: Developing an Application for Assessing Respondent Experiences of Their Surroundings in Real Time","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/1/2015","2/26/2015","Lauren Krivo","NJ","Rutgers University New Brunswick","Standard Grant","Patricia White","2/28/2017","$51,847.00 ","Zaire Dinzey-Flores, Janne Lindqvist, Hana Shepherd","lkrivo@sociology.rutgers.edu","33 Knightsbridge Road","Piscataway","NJ","33 Knightsbridge Road, Piscataway, NJ","88543925","8489320150","SBE","1331","7916, 9179","$0.00 ","Residential segregation is an important reality for different demographic groups in the United States. Yet we do not know whether such segregation extends to the places where people go during the course of their daily lives. We also do not know how everyday travel to different neighborhoods affects individuals and groups in ways that might increase or diminish segregation. This research seeks to address these gaps by studying segregation in motion, throughout people?s daily routine activities in relation to neighborhood experiences. We ask three fundamental questions: (1) do the areas where people go during the course of their days vary demographically and by the type of neighborhood where they live?; (2) do the areas that different social groups go to during their days vary systematically in terms of their available resources and social diversity?; and (3) how do people?s experiences of the neighborhoods they go to, including how welcome they feel and how they perceive access to resources, vary by their race, ethnicity, economic status, and the type of neighborhood they live in? <br/><br/>To address these questions, we will implement and evaluate an app for smartphones to collect ""live"" information on people's movement and neighborhood experiences as they happen. We will assess the feasibility of obtaining immediate explicit and implicit (nonconscious) measures of experiences in a place using the smartphone app. Pilot data will be collected for a small set of respondents. We will use these data to develop measures of mobile segregation and indicators of how people, in the moment, perceive their surroundings and opportunities in the places they go. Detailed evaluation of the app, its use in the field, and the ability to gain cooperation with the selected sample will allow us to determine whether the methods for collecting dynamic data during the course of everyday social life can be used in larger representative samples. Using cutting-edge mobile technology to collect such data will overcome the risk of recall biases in research that uses surveys or daily diaries to measure how people spend their time and experience their surroundings. <br/><br/>This research will have broad impacts in a several important ways. Obtaining data on how people explicitly and implicitly experience the places they visit, and how those experiences encourage or discourage them from going to certain locales, can help inform policy interventions that incentivize contact across demographic groups. The open source smartphone app developed in the course of this research will be shared with other researchers to advance knowledge on the connections between social, spatial, and cognitive processes and should have broad application beyond the specific study of social segregation in daily life.","crimson_battery","EAGER: Developing an Application for Assessing Respondent Experiences of Their Surroundings in Real Time",
"1527762","Collaborative Research: School Segregation and Resegregation: Using Case Studies and Public Polls to Understand Citizen Attitudes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Stephen Smith","SC","Winthrop University","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$56,997.00 ","","smiths@winthrop.edu","701 Oakland Avenue","Rock Hill","SC","701 Oakland Avenue, Rock Hill, SC","297303525","8033232239","SBE","1331","8050, 9150","$0.00 ","Why are some school districts able to sustain school desegregation while others are not? Although social scientists have been active in studying the effects of school racial composition on student achievement, relatively neglected is the inclusion of variation among districts in the social factors that lead to school district segregation itself. Using five case studies and public opinion polls, the research team will study the relationship between citizen characteristics and their attitudes and values supporting (or failing to support) school desegregation. This study increases the value of five strategically chosen case studies including those of Wake County, NC (Raleigh); Davidson County, TN (Nashville); Jefferson County, KY (Louisville); Charlotte-Mecklenburg, NC and Rock Hill, SC by fielding an opinion poll in each location, where the polls contain mostly common questions across sites. These polls will reveal similarities and differences in adult attitudes that track to differences in how long these districts have sustained desegregated schools. Study findings have implications for other school districts beyond the five studied here in terms of formulating policy that will better support socioeconomic mixing of students, which enhances diversity by promoting educational attainment and upward mobility in society, especially for at-risk students. <br/><br/>Some school districts sustain desegregation over many years while others do not. Existing research is largely based on case studies. Case studies have limited external validity and are often heterogeneous in approach because researchers frame questions and invoke theory differently. The data obtained from in-depth interviews, participant observation, and document analyses are rarely triangulated with data from theoretically-driven surveys of the school district's adult population. These attitudes and values play an important part in explaining districts' current school assignment policies and inform future policies as well. This study addresses gaps in existing social science literature on desegregation by using a common theoretical perspective and fielding a largely common questionnaire via Interactive Voice Response, supplemented by cell phone samples, across five school districts. The research will produce poll data on a minimum of 5000 adult respondents. Analysis will (1) embed each poll within the existing qualitative data on each case; and (2) use the poll data to analyze both commonalities and differences in values and attitudes across sites.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: School Segregation and Resegregation: Using Case Studies and Public Polls to Understand Citizen Attitudes",
"1558755","Social influences on the Long-term Cessation of Violence","SES","SOCIOLOGY","5/1/2016","4/26/2016","Peggy Giordano","OH","Bowling Green State University","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","4/30/2019","$384,404.00 ","Monica Longmore, Wendy Manning","pgiorda@bgsu.edu","400 E. Poe Rd.","Bowling Green","OH","400 E. Poe Rd., Bowling Green, OH","434030230","4193722481","SBE","1331","9179","$0.00 ","Social Influences on the Long-term Cessation of Violent Behaviors<br/><br/>In spite of increased interest in how individuals modify their behaviors in ways that promote health, little prior research has examined the process of moving away from the use of violence within intimate relationships. Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a leading cause of injury, particularly in young adult populations, and is associated with declines in emotional well-being. Despite the importance of the topic, there are few prior studies of how to decrease IPV. Those studies have been short-term and their explicit links to treatment programs has generally been limited to the emphases of these programs. The current study will provide a perspective on continuity and change in the experience of IPV over the different stages of life, and investigate the role of social experiences as influences on what causes changes in these types of behaviors. Most theories of change highlight the importance of the individual's own motivation and receptivity as key components of the change process. Unlike those studies, this study's focus on potentially malleable social factors will provide new insights about specific social and environmental influences that serve as catalysts for behavioral changes. Knowledge about these linkages has the potential to inform the design of more effective prevention and intervention efforts targeting this serious public health problem. <br/><br/>Using a life-course perspective, the study will build on a five-wave longitudinal investigation of a large, diverse sample of young men and women interviewed first as adolescents, and later as they have navigated the transition to adulthood (Toledo Adolescent Relationships Study). At each interview, information was collected about IPV perpetration, as well as about family, peer, romantic partner and neighborhood experiences and influences. The research will follow-up for an additional assessment all those respondents who reported using violence within the context of an intimate relationship during the course of the study (n=403). Specific objectives are to: a) document patterns of persistence and ""desistance"" of these behaviors, b) investigate the underlying mechanisms associated with the process of making and sustaining positive changes, and c) identify social and individual factors that distinguish desisters and those who continue this negative pattern within their relationships. The relatively long time gap between assessments (5 years) will permit an examination of sustained behavior change, as distinguished from the relatively common phenomenon of temporary lulls. In addition to the online structured data collection effort, the researchers will complete in-depth qualitative interviews with a subset of male and female respondents who vary in the character of their experiences with violence (n=85). This mixed method approach will permit a comprehensive examination of the complex interplay of social experiences and individual-level subjective changes as factors associated with the successful cessation of this form of interpersonal violence. This research contributes to scholarship about desistance from crime and contributes to the design of more effective programs to prevent and intervene in intimate partner violence.","crimson_battery","Social influences on the Long-term Cessation of Violence",
"1527285","Collaborative Research: School Segregation and Resegregation: Using Case Studies and Public Polls to Understand Citizen Attitudes","SES","SOCIOLOGY","7/15/2015","7/6/2015","Roslyn Mickelson","NC","University of North Carolina at Charlotte","Standard Grant","Patricia White","6/30/2017","$138,151.00 ","","rmicklsn@uncc.edu","9201 University City Boulevard","CHARLOTTE","NC","9201 University City Boulevard, CHARLOTTE, NC","282230001","7046871888","SBE","1331","8050","$0.00 ","Why are some school districts able to sustain school desegregation while others are not? Although social scientists have been active in studying the effects of school racial composition on student achievement, relatively neglected is the inclusion of variation among districts in the social factors that lead to school district segregation itself. Using five case studies and public opinion polls, the research team will study the relationship between citizen characteristics and their attitudes and values supporting (or failing to support) school desegregation. This study increases the value of five strategically chosen case studies including those of Wake County, NC (Raleigh); Davidson County, TN (Nashville); Jefferson County, KY (Louisville); Charlotte-Mecklenburg, NC and Rock Hill, SC by fielding an opinion poll in each location, where the polls contain mostly common questions across sites. These polls will reveal similarities and differences in adult attitudes that track to differences in how long these districts have sustained desegregated schools. Study findings have implications for other school districts beyond the five studied here in terms of formulating policy that will better support socioeconomic mixing of students, which enhances diversity by promoting educational attainment and upward mobility in society, especially for at-risk students. <br/><br/>Some school districts sustain desegregation over many years while others do not. Existing research is largely based on case studies. Case studies have limited external validity and are often heterogeneous in approach because researchers frame questions and invoke theory differently. The data obtained from in-depth interviews, participant observation, and document analyses are rarely triangulated with data from theoretically-driven surveys of the school district's adult population. These attitudes and values play an important part in explaining districts' current school assignment policies and inform future policies as well. This study addresses gaps in existing social science literature on desegregation by using a common theoretical perspective and fielding a largely common questionnaire via Interactive Voice Response, supplemented by cell phone samples, across five school districts. The research will produce poll data on a minimum of 5000 adult respondents. Analysis will (1) embed each poll within the existing qualitative data on each case; and (2) use the poll data to analyze both commonalities and differences in values and attitudes across sites.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: School Segregation and Resegregation: Using Case Studies and Public Polls to Understand Citizen Attitudes",
"1528703","Distributional Consequences of Economic Globalization","SES","SOCIOLOGY","8/1/2015","6/18/2015","Matthew Mahutga","CA","University of California-Riverside","Standard Grant","Patricia White","7/31/2017","$87,016.00 ","","matthew.mahutga@ucr.edu","Office of Research","RIVERSIDE","CA","Office of Research, RIVERSIDE, CA","925211000","9518275535","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","SES-1528703<br/>Matthew Mahutga<br/>University of California-Riverside<br/><br/>The causes of rising income inequality in advanced capitalist countries are not well understood by social scientists despite more than two decades of dedicated research. This project synthesizes literatures on the two most common researched causes of the increase in inequality: globalization and institutions. It advances both of these literatures by providing an explanation for the paradoxical findings on the distributional effects of economic globalization. This explanation identifies specific mechanisms by which globalization and national institutions interact to produce distinct distributional outcomes across time and space. <br/><br/>This study subjects the arguments to empirical scrutiny, a multilevel analysis of the Luxembourg Income Study's (LIS) individual wage data will be conducted. The bulk of NSF funds will support the harmonization of country-specific occupational categories in order to measure skill and work-place authority more directly than is currently possible, because both of these factors are the key mechanisms by which production globalization should affect inequality. In addition to advancing basic research on the causes of rising income inequality among advanced industrial democracies, this project will provide evidence-based assessments of the future implications of production globalization for income inequality, and of policy options at both the macro and micro levels. In tandem, these can help to ameliorate the impact of production globalization on income inequality, low-skill labor, and labor more generally, in the coming decades.","crimson_battery","Distributional Consequences of Economic Globalization",
"1524282","Education and Health Consequences of Parental Migration on Children","SES","SOCIOLOGY","9/1/2015","9/9/2015","Zai Liang","NY","SUNY at Albany","Standard Grant","Patricia White","8/31/2018","$330,836.00 ","","zliang@albany.edu","1400 WASHINGTON AVE","Albany","NY","1400 WASHINGTON AVE, Albany, NY","122220100","5184374550","SBE","1331","","$0.00 ","Over 50% of the world population resides in urban areas and migration (both internal and international) continues to be on the rise and increasingly affects more children in the household. By some estimates, between 15 to 30% of children in Africa, Asia, and Latin America live in households with at least one migrant parent. The long-term separation of children from their parents may have long term negative education and health consequences for children. Education is the engine of modern society and an important resource and investment for today's children to upward career mobility. To enhance our understanding of this critical issue the investigator will study the education and health outcomes of migrant the large population of children left behind in China. For the past three decades, China has seen the largest internal migration in human history. This massive wave of migration has also resulted in a major vulnerable population, i.e. roughly 61 million of left behind children whose parents went to work in Chinese cities. The researcher will conduct a major data collection on 4th grade left behind children in rural China. The data collection includes 4th grade student transcripts during grades 1-4, homeroom teachers? written evaluations of student education and behavior outcomes, assessment of student mental health, and a household survey of sampled students. The study also consists of analyses of variety of education outcomes and student mental health. Using both newly collected data and existing longitudinal data the investigator will examine health and behavior outcomes. Taking advantage of rich information on migration, the research examines how a variety of migration related variables (duration of migration, remittance, and distance of migration) affect education, health, and behavior outcomes for left behind children. <br/><br/>The project builds major data and research infrastructure for the study of left behind children in rural China and allows U.S. based researchers to carry out a variety of research topics related to migration and the well-being of children. As both internal and international migration continues to increase in the 21st century, a comprehensive understanding of migration and outcomes for children is not only important for China but also holds implications for left behind children (either due to internal migration or international migration of parents) in other countries as well. The project collects data on 1,000 current 4th grade students (both left behind children and children whose parents did not migrate) in the migrant-sending province of Sichuan province. These data include: (a) retrospective 4th grade student transcripts from grade 1 to grade 4; (b) Math and Chinese language tests of 4th graders; (c) homeroom teachers? evaluation of education performance and behavior issues of each student, and (d) a survey of student emotional development. The research team will also conduct a survey of 1,000 student households, collecting data on basic socioeconomic conditions of each household, migration and labor history of parents, and information on parental home visits along with other household level information. These data will be used to estimate statistical models of education outcomes, behavior outcomes, and emotional development and test a variety of hypotheses linking these outcomes to migration, remittances, school and community contexts, and peer group influences.","crimson_battery","Education and Health Consequences of Parental Migration on Children",
"1558635","Labor Rights in the American Midwest","SES","SOCIOLOGY","3/1/2016","3/4/2016","Marc Dixon","NH","Dartmouth College","Standard Grant","Beth Rubin","2/28/2018","$65,065.00 ","","Marc.D.Dixon@Dartmouth.edu","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS","HANOVER","NH","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS, HANOVER, NH","37551404","6036463007","SBE","1331","9150, 9250","$0.00 ","SES-1558635<br/>Marc Dixon<br/>Dartmouth College<br/><br/>The early 2010s saw an extraordinary burst of legislative activity and protest over labor rights in the American Midwest. Thousands flooded state capitols in protest; legislators fled to neighboring states to delay votes, and an unsuccessful and highly controversial gubernatorial recall election was waged. This study provides a comparative and historical lens to understand these events and provides new insights into social movements and labor unions in particular. The research examines legislative campaigns over labor rights in Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin as they were waged both in the late 1950s, at the peak of union strength, and in the early 2010s when unions were far weaker. By analyzing policy continuity and change across these states and over time, the study design allows for the detection of enduring features of labor relations, including areas where unions have long struggled, as well as how broad social processes like globalization and deindustrialization, which have developed in the interim, shape struggles over labor rights. Study findings will contribute to a better understanding of American labor relations and will provide new insights on the sources of influence among business interests and other advocacy organizations in civil society. <br/><br/>This comparative historical study examines legislative campaigns over Right-to-Work laws and public sector collective bargaining rights in Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin as they were waged both in the late 1950s, during the heyday of the so-called capital-labor accord, and in the early 2010s when unions were far weaker. This study seeks to understand patterns of continuity and policy change, both across the three states and over time, how labor unions and their shifting field of opponents forged coalitions, built support for policy proposals, and influenced legislation, and how these strategies have changed over time. The study is unique by providing a comparative historical lens to understand the recent and high profile struggles over labor rights in the American Midwest. It provides new insight on the 1950s as a critical decade for union development and contributes to social movement theory by analyzing the processes and outcomes of activist mobilization by not just unions, but corporations and business federations as well. The project incorporates archival data from unions, business organizations and elected officials involved in the campaigns across the two periods and in-depth interviews with a range of participants in the 2010s. Interview and archival materials are analyzed with a formal qualitative methodology in Event Structure Analysis (ESA), aiding the systematic comparison of mobilization processes and policy outcomes across states and over time.","crimson_battery","Labor Rights in the American Midwest",
"1407788","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: A Socio-Technical Approach to Privacy in a Camera-Rich World","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","10/1/2014","8/26/2014","Denise Anthony","NH","Dartmouth College","Standard Grant","Nan Zhang","9/30/2018","$400,000.00 ","","denise.l.anthony@dartmouth.edu","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS","HANOVER","NH","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS, HANOVER, NH","37551404","6036463007","CSE","8060","7434, 7924, 9102, 9150","$0.00 ","Cameras are now pervasive on consumer devices, including smartphones, laptops, tablets, and new wearable devices like Google Glass and the Narrative Clip lifelogging camera. The ubiquity of these cameras will soon create a new era of visual sensing applications, for example, devices that collect photos and videos of our daily lives, augmented reality applications that help us understand and navigate the world around us, and community-oriented applications, e.g., where cameras close to a crisis tasked with obtaining a real-time ""million-eye view"" of the scene to guide first responders in an emergency. These technologies raise significant implications for individuals and society, including both potential benefits for individuals and communities, but also significant hazards including privacy invasion for individuals, and, if unchecked, for society, as surveillance causes a chilling effect in the public square. This research couples a sociological understanding of privacy with an investigation of technical mechanisms to address these needs. Issues such as context (e.g., capturing images for public use may be okay at a public event, but not in the home) and content (are individuals recognizable?) will be explored both on technical and sociological fronts: What can we determine about images, what does this mean in terms of privacy risk, and how can systems protect against risk to privacy?<br/><br/>Specific research challenges to be addressed include formulating technical means through image and context analysis to improve the privacy of people captured in images; exploring the unique privacy needs of camera owners and how image and contextual analysis can improve privacy; and developing image transformations to afford privacy as well as enable novel applications using the cloud and crowdsourcing. Companion sociological studies will examine how context affects privacy perceptions, the impact on perception of new technologies, and image-sharing behavior. These studies will guide each other, ensuring that mechanisms for image transformation/privatization, non-visual transformations (e.g., altering or obscuring image metadata) and other techniques can improve both privacy protection against automated analysis and how they affect individual perceptions of the invasiveness of the technology. Through a deeper understanding of the privacy implications of such technologies from both a social and technical perspective, the proposed research has the potential for profound and positive societal impact by laying a foundation for privacy-sensitive visual sensing techniques for a society where cameras are ubiquitous.","lime_battery","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: A Socio-Technical Approach to Privacy in a Camera-Rich World",
"1408730","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: A Socio-Technical Approach to Privacy in a Camera-Rich World","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","10/1/2014","8/26/2014","Apu Kapadia","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Nan Zhang","9/30/2018","$800,000.00 ","David Crandall","kapadia@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","CSE","8060","7434, 7924, 9178, 9251","$0.00 ","Cameras are now pervasive on consumer devices, including smartphones, laptops, tablets, and new wearable devices like Google Glass and the Narrative Clip lifelogging camera. The ubiquity of these cameras will soon create a new era of visual sensing applications, for example, devices that collect photos and videos of our daily lives, augmented reality applications that help us understand and navigate the world around us, and community-oriented applications, e.g., where cameras close to a crisis tasked with obtaining a real-time ""million-eye view"" of the scene to guide first responders in an emergency. These technologies raise significant implications for individuals and society, including both potential benefits for individuals and communities, but also significant hazards including privacy invasion for individuals, and, if unchecked, for society, as surveillance causes a chilling effect in the public square. This research couples a sociological understanding of privacy with an investigation of technical mechanisms to address these needs. Issues such as context (e.g., capturing images for public use may be okay at a public event, but not in the home) and content (are individuals recognizable?) will be explored both on technical and sociological fronts: What can we determine about images, what does this mean in terms of privacy risk, and how can systems protect against risk to privacy?<br/><br/>Specific research challenges to be addressed include formulating technical means through image and context analysis to improve the privacy of people captured in images; exploring the unique privacy needs of camera owners and how image and contextual analysis can improve privacy; and developing image transformations to afford privacy as well as enable novel applications using the cloud and crowdsourcing. Companion sociological studies will examine how context affects privacy perceptions, the impact on perception of new technologies, and image-sharing behavior. These studies will guide each other, ensuring that mechanisms for image transformation/privatization, non-visual transformations (e.g., altering or obscuring image metadata) and other techniques can improve both privacy protection against automated analysis and how they affect individual perceptions of the invasiveness of the technology. Through a deeper understanding of the privacy implications of such technologies from both a social and technical perspective, the proposed research has the potential for profound and positive societal impact by laying a foundation for privacy-sensitive visual sensing techniques for a society where cameras are ubiquitous.","lime_battery","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: A Socio-Technical Approach to Privacy in a Camera-Rich World",
"1564034","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: Building a Privacy-Preserving Social Networking Platform from a Technological and Sociological Perspective","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","9/1/2016","8/24/2016","Jaideep Vaidya","NJ","Rutgers University Newark","Standard Grant","Heng Xu","8/31/2019","$323,504.00 ","Patrick Shafto","jsvaidya@rbs.rutgers.edu","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206","Newark","NJ","Blumenthal Hall, Suite 206, Newark, NJ","71021896","9739720283","CSE","8060","7434, 7924","$0.00 ","Social networks provide many benefits, but also give rise to serious concerns regarding privacy. Indeed, since privacy protections are not intrinsically incorporated into the underlying technological framework, user data is still accessible to the social network and is open to misuse. While there have been efforts to incorporate privacy into social networks, existing solutions are not sufficiently lightweight, transparent, and functional, and therefore have achieved only limited adoption. This project develops a privacy-preserving social network (Trusted-Space) where user data are protected from the social network itself, other social network users, and advertisers. The project synthesizes solutions from a technological and sociological perspective to ensure that all of the required functionalities for both users and advertisers to participate effectively in the social network are available. The project develops compact data representations and usability driven functionalities that are privacy-preserving. The project also evaluates people's expectations about the implications of their own actions on their privacy and the future behavior of the algorithms, towards creating a simple, transparent, and predictable environment to facilitate widespread adoption. <br/><br/>Since social networks permeate modern life, the project will have significant impact through enabling the incorporation of usable privacy technology into the social network fabric. The project also cultivates the integration of research and education, by providing opportunities for research to undergraduates and graduates, while increasing the awareness of privacy issues among the general public through outreach activities.","lime_battery","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: Building a Privacy-Preserving Social Networking Platform from a Technological and Sociological Perspective",
"1564101","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: Building a Privacy-Preserving Social Networking Platform from a Technological and Sociological Perspective","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","9/1/2016","8/24/2016","Wei Jiang","MO","Missouri University of Science and Technology","Standard Grant","Heng Xu","8/31/2019","$343,714.00 ","Dan Lin","wjiang@mst.edu","300 W 12th Street","Rolla","MO","300 W 12th Street, Rolla, MO","654096506","5733414134","CSE","8060","7434, 7924, 9150","$0.00 ","Social networks provide many benefits, but also give rise to serious concerns regarding privacy. Indeed, since privacy protections are not intrinsically incorporated into the underlying technological framework, user data is still accessible to the social network and is open to misuse. While there have been efforts to incorporate privacy into social networks, existing solutions are not sufficiently lightweight, transparent, and functional, and therefore have achieved only limited adoption. This project develops a privacy-preserving social network (Trusted-Space) where user data are protected from the social network itself, other social network users, and advertisers. The project synthesizes solutions from a technological and sociological perspective to ensure that all of the required functionalities for both users and advertisers to participate effectively in the social network are available. The project develops compact data representations and usability driven functionalities that are privacy-preserving. The project also evaluates people's expectations about the implications of their own actions on their privacy and the future behavior of the algorithms, towards creating a simple, transparent, and predictable environment to facilitate widespread adoption. <br/><br/>Since social networks permeate modern life, the project will have significant impact through enabling the incorporation of usable privacy technology into the social network fabric. The project also cultivates the integration of research and education, by providing opportunities for research to undergraduates and graduates, while increasing the awareness of privacy issues among the general public through outreach activities.","lime_battery","TWC SBE: Medium: Collaborative: Building a Privacy-Preserving Social Networking Platform from a Technological and Sociological Perspective",
"1451399","Liberal Studies in Engineering: Broadening the Path to the Profession. Phase I","DUE","IUSE","12/1/2014","1/29/2015","Louis Bucciarelli","MA","Massachusetts Institute of Technology","Standard Grant","Olga Pierrakos","11/30/2016","$54,200.00 ","","llbjr@mit.edu","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE","Cambridge","MA","77 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, Cambridge, MA","21394301","6172531000","EHR","1998","8209, 9178","$0.00 ","This project addresses an important need to seek a wider range of approaches toward broadening participation in engineering. The traditional pathway into engineering careers is based on a series of mathematics and science prerequisite courses that have proven to be a barrier for many interested and potentially capable engineering students. This project will explore the possibility of developing a version of the undergraduate engineering degree that is based on the perspective of the humanities, arts, and social sciences but also includes content from the traditional undergraduate engineering curriculum. A workshop will be conducted to explore opportunities to establish an undergraduate, pre-professional, bachelor of arts degree for undergraduate students interested in a career in engineering but who enter college uncertain about their degree of commitment to engineering. For these students a liberal studies in engineering degree might serve as an alternative, smoother pathway into engineering. Upon completion, these students could pursue options that include direct employment in technical areas, entreprenurial endeavors, and the pursuit of additional specialized training or advanced degrees in engineering, business, law, or medicine. In this workshop potential collaborator institutions will meet to clarify objectives, suggest content, and examine the structure such a program might take at their respective institutions. The workshop participants will develop a plan to move forward with program development. It is anticipated that a diverse group of approximately 50 educators from a variety of institutional types will participate in the project.<br/><br/>This workshop is the beginning of a multi-phase process to explore and develop a potentially transformative step in broadening participation in engineering by offering a pathway into the discipline, and route to a degree, that is markedly different from the traditional path but still encompasses comparable content. Traditionally engineering education heavily emphasizes mathematics and science prerequisite topics for beginning students and addresses the broader social, economic, cultural, and ethical aspects much later in the curriculum and often in an indirect manner. The planned liberal studies in engineering degree envisions reversing the process, offering students an approach to the discipline from a humanistic, artistic, and social perspective. Specific issues to be resolved are aimed at advancing knowledge along pedagogical, epistemological, and sociological dimensions. Pedagogical issues to be clarified in this work include identifying the means for faculty to effectively collaborate in teaching across liberal arts and engineering in a mutually beneficial way. Epistemological topics will address the question of what must students know to successfully engage the engineering sciences that are at the core of the traditional engineering major. Sociological analysis will investigate the institutional and cultural values, beliefs, and norms that both guide and constrain the renovation of programs. Initiatives such as this workshop will identify the steps needed and challenges to be overcome in creating opportunities for individuals whose initial interests in engineering are different from those of the currently established demographic of the discipline. As such it holds the potential to provide a model for other STEM disciplines facing similar challenges.","mauve_battery","Liberal Studies in Engineering: Broadening the Path to the Profession. Phase I",
"1535251","Examining the Career Trajectories of Urban Math Teachers from a Selective Alternative Certification Program","DGE","ROBERT NOYCE SCHOLARSHIP PGM, Core R&D Programs","9/1/2015","9/2/2015","Andrew Brantlinger","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Earnestine P. Easter","8/31/2018","$548,929.00 ","","amb@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","EHR","1795, 7980","8816","$0.00 ","The goal of the research project is to describe the features of selective alternative teacher certification programs (ATCPs) that affect selective route mathematics teachers' (SRMT) professional pathways and to make informed recommendations to decrease the current high teacher turnover. While selective ATCPs are intended to address issues of teacher staffing and quality by recruiting high achieving graduates of the nation's most competitive colleges and career changers with impressive resumes, there is little understanding about the reasons for their mixed outcomes. Thus, the proposed project will utilize a multi-methodological longitudinal design that incorporates cultural-mathematical and sociological perspectives to 1) determine patterns of career trajectories of a representative sample of SRMTs and 2) examine how variations in the features of a selective ATCP affect SRMT retention. The results of the study will be useful to various stakeholders, including policymakers, district and school leaders, and directors of urban-specific teacher preparation programs by clarifying patterns in the career trajectories of SRMTs while also revealing how to retain them.. <br/><br/>The study is framed by the literature on teacher turnover, alternative teacher certification programs, and teachers' professional life cycles. It is guided also by two theoretical perspectives, namely a sociological careership perspective used to examine SRMTs' career trajectories and a cultural-mathematical perspective that identifies the features of selective ATCPs that influence SMRT retention. The researchers will combine new survey and interview data with previously collected data on New York City Teaching Fellows (NYCTF) to produce findings that could inform the development of mathematics teacher preparation programs and interventions for an improved urban mathematics teaching force. <br/><br/>The project is supported by the ECR program that emphasizes fundamental STEM education research that generates foundational knowledge in the field. Investments are made in critical areas that are essential, broad and enduring: STEM learning and STEM learning environments, broadening participation in STEM, and STEM workforce development. ECR supports the accumulation of robust evidence to inform efforts to understand, build theory to explain, and suggest intervention and innovations to address persistent challenges in STEM interest, education, learning and participation.","mauve_battery","Examining the Career Trajectories of Urban Math Teachers from a Selective Alternative Certification Program",
"1535219","Examining the Career Trajectories of Urban Math Teachers from a Selective Alternative Certification Program","DGE","ROBERT NOYCE SCHOLARSHIP PGM, Core R&D Programs","9/1/2015","9/2/2015","Laurel Cooley","NY","CUNY Brooklyn College","Standard Grant","Earnestine P. Easter","8/31/2018","$949,123.00 ","","laurelcooley@yahoo.com","Office of Research & Sponsored P","Brooklyn","NY","Office of Research & Sponsored P, Brooklyn, NY","112102889","7189515622","EHR","1795, 7980","8816","$0.00 ","The goal of the research project is to describe the features of selective alternative teacher certification programs (ATCPs) that affect selective route mathematics teachers' (SRMT) professional pathways and to make informed recommendations to decrease the current high teacher turnover. While selective ATCPs are intended to address issues of teacher staffing and quality by recruiting high achieving graduates of the nation's most competitive colleges and career changers with impressive resumes, there is little understanding about the reasons for their mixed outcomes. Thus, the proposed project will utilize a multi-methodological longitudinal design that incorporates cultural-mathematical and sociological perspectives to 1) determine patterns of career trajectories of a representative sample of SRMTs and 2) examine how variations in the features of a selective ATCP affect SRMT retention. The results of the study will be useful to various stakeholders, including policymakers, district and school leaders, and directors of urban-specific teacher preparation programs by clarifying patterns in the career trajectories of SRMTs while also revealing how to retain them.. <br/><br/>The study is framed by the literature on teacher turnover, alternative teacher certification programs, and teachers' professional life cycles. It is guided also by two theoretical perspectives, namely a sociological careership perspective used to examine SRMTs' career trajectories and a cultural-mathematical perspective that identifies the features of selective ATCPs that influence SMRT retention. The researchers will combine new survey and interview data with previously collected data on New York City Teaching Fellows (NYCTF) to produce findings that could inform the development of mathematics teacher preparation programs and interventions for an improved urban mathematics teaching force. <br/><br/>The project is supported by the ECR program that emphasizes fundamental STEM education research that generates foundational knowledge in the field. Investments are made in critical areas that are essential, broad and enduring: STEM learning and STEM learning environments, broadening participation in STEM, and STEM workforce development. ECR supports the accumulation of robust evidence to inform efforts to understand, build theory to explain, and suggest intervention and innovations to address persistent challenges in STEM interest, education, learning and participation.","mauve_battery","Examining the Career Trajectories of Urban Math Teachers from a Selective Alternative Certification Program",
"1630377","Collaborative Research: A Corpus of New York City English: Audio-Aligned and Parsed","BCS","LINGUISTICS","8/1/2016","7/28/2016","Cecelia Cutler","NY","CUNY Herbert H. Lehman College","Standard Grant","Joan Maling","1/31/2020","$180,533.00 ","","cecelia.cutler@lehman.cuny.edu","250 Bedford Park Blvd West","Bronx","NY","250 Bedford Park Blvd West, Bronx, NY","104681589","7189608107","SBE","1311","1311, 7298, SMET","$0.00 ","This project aims to further the study of New York City English (NYCE) - the varieties of English particular to New York City and the surrounding region - through the development and use of an innovative audio-aligned and parsed corpus of New Yorkers' speech. The project will combine recent advances in speech corpus development tools with the special talents and backgrounds of undergraduates at the City University of New York (CUNY), to create the first such corpus of New York City English (the CUNY-CoNYCE). The CUNY-CoNYCE will be based on interviews with New Yorkers across the five boroughs and Long Island, conducted by CUNY undergraduates from Queens College, Lehman College (The Bronx), and the College of Staten Island. Because our student populations draw predominantly from neighborhoods across the five boroughs of New York City and Long Island, they are uniquely able to collectively gather and produce large quantities of speech data from all over the region. The ultimate product will be an on-line, freely accessible, ~1,000,000-word audio-aligned and grammatically annotated corpus of NYCE speech, which will be accompanied by a full set of digital, text-searchable recordings of the speech signal from which the corpus is transcribed.<br/><br/>In addition to answering questions about language variation and change in NYCE, the corpus will further research in all areas of linguistics, especially in phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, sociolinguistics, and discourse analysis. The use of oral history and sociological measurements of ethnic affiliation components in data collection will also make the CUNY-CoNYCE a useful tool for sociologists and anthropologists examining lived experience in urban settings, inter-ethnic relations, and near-term history of New York life. The project will also provide transformative research experiences for dozens of CUNY undergraduates, giving them unique research opportunities. Additionally, users of the corpus will develop an understanding of and appreciation for the grammar of non-standard dialects, and functions of non-standard speech as necessary linguistic resources for social integration.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: A Corpus of New York City English: Audio-Aligned and Parsed",
"1629348","Collaborative Research: A corpus of New York City English: Audio-aligned and parsed","BCS","LINGUISTICS","8/1/2016","7/28/2016","Beatrice Santorini","PA","University of Pennsylvania","Standard Grant","Joan Maling","1/31/2020","$80,099.00 ","","beatrice@sas.upenn.edu","Research Services","Philadelphia","PA","Research Services, Philadelphia, PA","191046205","2158987293","SBE","1311","1311, 7298, SMET","$0.00 ","This project aims to further the study of New York City English (NYCE) - the varieties of English particular to New York City and the surrounding region - through the development and use of an innovative audio-aligned and parsed corpus of New Yorkers' speech. The project will combine recent advances in speech corpus development tools with the special talents and backgrounds of undergraduates at the City University of New York (CUNY), to create the first such corpus of New York City English (the CUNY-CoNYCE). The CUNY-CoNYCE will be based on interviews with New Yorkers across the five boroughs and Long Island, conducted by CUNY undergraduates from Queens College, Lehman College (The Bronx), and the College of Staten Island. Because our student populations draw predominantly from neighborhoods across the five boroughs of New York City and Long Island, they are uniquely able to collectively gather and produce large quantities of speech data from all over the region. The ultimate product will be an on-line, freely accessible, ~1,000,000-word audio-aligned and grammatically annotated corpus of NYCE speech, which will be accompanied by a full set of digital, text-searchable recordings of the speech signal from which the corpus is transcribed.<br/><br/>In addition to answering questions about language variation and change in NYCE, the corpus will further research in all areas of linguistics, especially in phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, sociolinguistics, and discourse analysis. The use of oral history and sociological measurements of ethnic affiliation components in data collection will also make the CUNY-CoNYCE a useful tool for sociologists and anthropologists examining lived experience in urban settings, inter-ethnic relations, and near-term history of New York life. The project will also provide transformative research experiences for dozens of CUNY undergraduates, giving them unique research opportunities. Additionally, users of the corpus will develop an understanding of and appreciation for the grammar of non-standard dialects, and functions of non-standard speech as necessary linguistic resources for social integration.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: A corpus of New York City English: Audio-aligned and parsed",
"1630286","Collaborative Research: A Corpus of New York City English: Audio-Aligned and Parsed","BCS","LINGUISTICS","8/1/2016","7/28/2016","Michael Newman","NY","CUNY Queens College","Standard Grant","Joan Maling","1/31/2020","$269,171.00 ","William Haddican","Michael.Newman@qc.cuny.edu","65 30 Kissena Blvd","Flushing","NY","65 30 Kissena Blvd, Flushing, NY","113671575","7189975400","SBE","1311","1311, 7298, SMET","$0.00 ","This project aims to further the study of New York City English (NYCE) - the varieties of English particular to New York City and the surrounding region - through the development and use of an innovative audio-aligned and parsed corpus of New Yorkers' speech. The project will combine recent advances in speech corpus development tools with the special talents and backgrounds of undergraduates at the City University of New York (CUNY), to create the first such corpus of New York City English (the CUNY-CoNYCE). The CUNY-CoNYCE will be based on interviews with New Yorkers across the five boroughs and Long Island, conducted by CUNY undergraduates from Queens College, Lehman College (The Bronx), and the College of Staten Island. Because our student populations draw predominantly from neighborhoods across the five boroughs of New York City and Long Island, they are uniquely able to collectively gather and produce large quantities of speech data from all over the region. The ultimate product will be an on-line, freely accessible, ~1,000,000-word audio-aligned and grammatically annotated corpus of NYCE speech, which will be accompanied by a full set of digital, text-searchable recordings of the speech signal from which the corpus is transcribed.<br/><br/>In addition to answering questions about language variation and change in NYCE, the corpus will further research in all areas of linguistics, especially in phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, sociolinguistics, and discourse analysis. The use of oral history and sociological measurements of ethnic affiliation components in data collection will also make the CUNY-CoNYCE a useful tool for sociologists and anthropologists examining lived experience in urban settings, inter-ethnic relations, and near-term history of New York life. The project will also provide transformative research experiences for dozens of CUNY undergraduates, giving them unique research opportunities. Additionally, users of the corpus will develop an understanding of and appreciation for the grammar of non-standard dialects, and functions of non-standard speech as necessary linguistic resources for social integration.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: A Corpus of New York City English: Audio-Aligned and Parsed",
"1630274","Collaborative Research: A Corpus of New York City English: Audio-Aligned and Parsed","BCS","LINGUISTICS","8/1/2016","7/28/2016","Christina Tortora","NY","CUNY College of Staten Island","Standard Grant","Joan Maling","1/31/2020","$210,805.00 ","","christina.tortora@csi.cuny.edu","2800 Victory Boulevard","Staten Island","NY","2800 Victory Boulevard, Staten Island, NY","103146609","7189822254","SBE","1311","1311, 7298, SMET","$0.00 ","This project aims to further the study of New York City English (NYCE) - the varieties of English particular to New York City and the surrounding region - through the development and use of an innovative audio-aligned and parsed corpus of New Yorkers' speech. The project will combine recent advances in speech corpus development tools with the special talents and backgrounds of undergraduates at the City University of New York (CUNY), to create the first such corpus of New York City English (the CUNY-CoNYCE). The CUNY-CoNYCE will be based on interviews with New Yorkers across the five boroughs and Long Island, conducted by CUNY undergraduates from Queens College, Lehman College (The Bronx), and the College of Staten Island. Because our student populations draw predominantly from neighborhoods across the five boroughs of New York City and Long Island, they are uniquely able to collectively gather and produce large quantities of speech data from all over the region. The ultimate product will be an on-line, freely accessible, ~1,000,000-word audio-aligned and grammatically annotated corpus of NYCE speech, which will be accompanied by a full set of digital, text-searchable recordings of the speech signal from which the corpus is transcribed.<br/><br/>In addition to answering questions about language variation and change in NYCE, the corpus will further research in all areas of linguistics, especially in phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, sociolinguistics, and discourse analysis. The use of oral history and sociological measurements of ethnic affiliation components in data collection will also make the CUNY-CoNYCE a useful tool for sociologists and anthropologists examining lived experience in urban settings, inter-ethnic relations, and near-term history of New York life. The project will also provide transformative research experiences for dozens of CUNY undergraduates, giving them unique research opportunities. Additionally, users of the corpus will develop an understanding of and appreciation for the grammar of non-standard dialects, and functions of non-standard speech as necessary linguistic resources for social integration.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: A Corpus of New York City English: Audio-Aligned and Parsed",
"1525109","FIRSTS (Foundation for Increasing and Retaining STEM Students) Program: A bridge program to study the sociological development of science identities","DUE","S-STEM:SCHLR SCI TECH ENG&MATH, IUSE","1/1/2016","9/2/2015","Sudhir Nayak","NJ","The College of New Jersey","Standard Grant","Ron Buckmire","12/31/2018","$538,900.00 ","Sarah Pulimood, Benny Chan, Lynn Gazley, Suriza Van der Sandt","nayak@tcnj.edu","P.O. Box 7718","Ewing","NJ","P.O. Box 7718, Ewing, NJ","86280718","6097713255","EHR","1536, 1998","8209, 9178","$0.00 ","FIRSTS (Foundation for Increasing and Retaining STEM Students) is an extended summer bridge program for incoming students that continues through their first semester at college. The overall goals of this program are to help students from underserved populations transition to the rigors of the STEM curriculum and gather both qualitative and quantitative data on the reasons financially needy students elect to leave STEM disciplines. Rather than simply filling content gaps, FIRSTS will use the remediation of study skills in a interdisciplinary summer course, extensive mentoring, and the development of a science identity to improve success in STEM disciplines. In addition to student-focused strategies, the program also will incorporate faculty development in the improvement of teaching methods and mentoring through participation, training, interdisciplinary interactions, and discussions. <br/><br/>FIRSTS will leverage the existing college-funded programming that is focused on predominantly underrepresented minority students from regions of historic poverty and will carefully pilot an expansion to include School of Science students with similar profiles. This program will deploy best practices for at-risk students, while focusing the research on understudied questions related to the impact of socioeconomic status, intersecting science and other identities. As such, FIRSTS will represent the unique data-driven collaboration between the School of Science and the School of Humanities and Social Sciences on pedagogy and research. If successful, the data from this project will allow other departments, colleges, and universities to incorporate a developmental philosophy in their existing STEM retention strategies.","mauve_battery","FIRSTS (Foundation for Increasing and Retaining STEM Students) Program: A bridge program to study the sociological development of science identities",
"1526155","CHS: Small: Advancing the Human Work of Data Analytics","IIS","Cyber-Human Systems (CHS)","9/1/2015","7/8/2016","Phoebe Sengers","NY","Cornell University","Continuing grant","William Bainbridge","8/31/2018","$341,379.00 ","David Mimno","sengers@cs.cornell.edu","373 Pine Tree Road","Ithaca","NY","373 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY","148502820","6072555014","CSE","7367","7367, 7923","$0.00 ","Data analytics, the automatic discovery of patterns in large datasets, is an integral part of contemporary digital practice. Owing to their large scale, broad scope, and unprecedented granularity, such data are manually intractable and, thus, data mining algorithms do work that humans cannot. Still, data analytics necessitates human labor to make it work, for example deciding what data to collect, pre-processing the data to make them algorithm-ready, and making sense of the results. This research addresses related technical and societal challenges by identifying, tracking, and analyzing the multiple forms of human labor involved in the practice of data analytics, and by using this analysis to develop new methods for data analytics research and training. By articulating work practices that previously have been taught largely through apprenticeship, this work expands the reach of data analytics beyond those with direct connections to existing researchers. It increases transparency and accountability of data analysis by making clear how data analysis results are developed and by developing techniques to better communicate results. It supports a better fit between data analysis and domain contexts and demonstrates good practices for integrating social and technical research. The key question this project will answer is how people and machines can work together more effectively to make sense of large-scale data.<br/><br/>Through a collaboration between sociologists of technology and data scientists, this research will identify and address invisible labor at three stages in the analytics process: (1) Conceptualization: How is a problem conceptualized and translated into a machine-solvable data analytic problem? (2) Pre-processing: How are data collected, cleaned, and made algorithm-ready? (3) Post-processing: How are the results of data analysis contextualized, represented, and made sense of, both individually and publically? This research answers these questions by analyzing the uptake of data analytics in the digital humanities. This is a useful site for surfacing questions of human labor because data analytics is a powerful potential tool for the humanities, but does not map directly onto traditional research methods in this field. Thus, mapping problems onto data analytics and translating the results of data analytics into meaningful arguments for the target domain requires more explicit articulation than is the case in more ""data-native"" disciplines. This research develops implications for the practice of data analysis in 4 areas: (1) designing new curricula for training in data analysis; (2) developing software systems and research methods that better address and support human labor; (3) exploring new ways to make the process of data analysis transparent, accountable, and communicable; and (4) creating a nuanced sociological understanding of the practice of data analysis.","lime_atom","CHS: Small: Advancing the Human Work of Data Analytics",
"1519243","EAGER: Cybercrime Susceptibility in the Sociotechnical System: Exploration of Integrated Micro- and Macro-Level Sociotechnical Models of Cybersecurity","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","8/14/2014","3/31/2015","Saman Aliari Zonouz","NJ","Rutgers University New Brunswick","Standard Grant","Ralph Wachter","9/30/2016","$138,558.00 ","","saman.zonouz@rutgers.edu","33 Knightsbridge Road","Piscataway","NJ","33 Knightsbridge Road, Piscataway, NJ","88543925","8489320150","CSE","8060","7434, 7916","$0.00 ","This project develops a holistic approach to sociotechnical system security that combines innovations in both criminology and engineering/computer science. We design unified sociotechnical security models that capture how sociotechnical intrusions against social as well as technical aspects of the system (i.e., modeled as hidden sequences of system security states) result in observed hard data such as security sensor alerts and soft data produced by human/social sensors such as reports about slow machines. <br/><br/>To model the social aspect of the sociotechnical security models, (1) we collect extensive social survey data from one specific subpopulation (employees) nested within one sociotechnical system (the university campus); (2) we identify various social and social-psychological factors reducing susceptibility to victimization by computer-focused crime drawing on several criminological and sociological theories; (3) we supplement social survey data with organizational-level data to explore influences of characteristics of organizational units on individual-level employee victimization by computer-focused crimes as well as rates of such cybercrime threats in organizational units. We analyze the collected data by applying unique integrated sociotechnical analytical approaches that encapsulate the adversarial actions and subsequent rewards/costs using stochastic Markov decisions processes and probabilistic data production models. <br/><br/>Our research provides guidelines for other researchers looking to incorporate social science methods and models into engineering systems, with the criminological/sociological aspect of the study of use to many other researchers. This work will transform how researchers approach the problem of sociotechnical security, in that our holistic view cognizant of both social and technical factors will become widespread.","lime_battery","EAGER: Cybercrime Susceptibility in the Sociotechnical System: Exploration of Integrated Micro- and Macro-Level Sociotechnical Models of Cybersecurity",
"1628471","ADVANCE Institutional Transformation at the University of New Mexico","HRD","ADVANCE, EXP PROG TO STIM COMP RES","9/15/2016","9/14/2016","Julia Fulghum","NM","University of New Mexico","Cooperative Agreement","Jessie A. Dearo","8/31/2021","$1,300,064.00 ","Mary Jo Daniel, Stephanie Forrest, Mala Htun, Phillip Gonzales","jfulghum@unm.edu","1700 Lomas Blvd. NE, Suite 2200","ALBUQUERQUE","NM","1700 Lomas Blvd. NE, Suite 2200, ALBUQUERQUE, NM","871310001","5052774186","EHR","016Y, 9150","1738, 9150","$0.00 ","The ADVANCE program is designed to foster gender equity through a focus on the identification and elimination of organizational barriers that impede the full participation and advancement of women faculty in academic institutions. Organizational barriers that inhibit equity may exist in areas such as policy, practice, culture, and organizational climate. The ADVANCE Institutional Transformation (ADVANCE-IT) track supports the development of innovative organizational change strategies within an institution of higher education to enhance gender equity in the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines.<br/><br/>The University of New Mexico's (UNM) ADVANCE-IT project will create the Institute for Diversity and Equity Across STEM (IDEAS) to serve as the organizational catalyst of institutional transformation, promoting gender equity in the recruitment, retention and advancement of STEM faculty. UNM is in a majority-minority state and is a Carnegie Very High Research Activity University and a Hispanic-Serving Institution with a diverse student body. The project will implement strategies to engage STEM leaders, including senior faculty, as partners; create mentoring and networking programs; and improve the transparency of policies and processes that impact faculty.<br/><br/>IDEAS will implement a ""managerial engagement model"" developed by sociologists Dobbin and Kalev which proposes that engaging managers in programs to promote diversity, including connections with underrepresented groups, enhances their motivation and changes attitudes. IDEAS will show how this managerial engagement model, an evidence-based approach to promote diversity in organizational leadership, can be applied to universities. In addition, IDEAS will incorporate an intersectional perspective to address the distinct situations of minority women in STEM. IDEAS will generate evidence to inform comparative analyses of factors influencing the advancement of women and minorities across different types of organizations as well as of the strategies most appropriate to different subgroups of women. The goals of the project include the creation of a more inclusive, egalitarian, and supportive institutional climate and improving satisfaction with, and perceptions of fairness of, the tenure and promotion process at UNM.","mauve_car","ADVANCE Institutional Transformation at the University of New Mexico",
"1243536","PIRE: U.S.-Denmark Cooperative Research and Education in Intermittency-Friendly Community-Scale Renewable Energy Micro-Grids","OISE","PIRE","10/1/2012","8/18/2016","Michael Isaacson","CA","University of California-Santa Cruz","Continuing grant","Cassandra M. Dudka","9/30/2016","$1,730,536.00 ","Ronnie Lipschutz, Bryan Jenkins, Lisa Hunter, Ali Shakouri","msi@soe.ucsc.edu","1156 High Street","Santa Cruz","CA","1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA","950641077","8314595278","O/D","7742","5914, 5979, 7566","$0.00 ","Uncertain resource supplies, global change and energy market volatility call for strategies directed at developing alternative energy solutions. Anticipated requirements for reduction in fossil fuel consumption and carbon emissions from large-scale centralized power generation, point to the need for fundamentally sound ways to increase renewable energy sources along with facilities for delivery and distribution. This Partnership for International Research and Education (PIRE) project addresses the technical, social, and economic aspects of community-scale renewable energy micro-grids. The partnership involves researchers from the U.S. and Denmark who, together, will serve as a cooperative, virtual research, development and education center. Primary partners are the University of California-Santa Cruz, the University of California-Davis, Aalborg University and the Technical University of Denmark.<br/><br/>Technically, the core efforts of this PIRE focus on integrating engineering design and deployment principles with sociological elements of energy user behavior. This will be achieved through a collaborative research framework that collects supply and demand data in both countries, models micro-grid-user operation, and analyzes the effects of intermittency and variable demand. In doing this, the U.S.-Danish team will focus on system optimization based on site-specific solar, wind, heat pumps, cogeneration and storage, and intelligent agents for load managing. Integrated with the five-year research effort is a well balanced educational program for student and junior researchers, professional development focused on sustainability engineering, renewable energy, and ecological design, as well as workforce development seminars for industry professionals. Junior participants have access to hands-on design and operation opportunities, reinforced by jointly prepared video-linked courses on renewable micro-grid fundamentals and operation. Overall, the anticipated broader impacts include the practical refinement of an innovative approach to power generation that takes into account local and regional variations, while complementing the existing power grid. If successful, future applications could lead to a measurable increase in carbon-free energy capacity with potentially lower environmental and regulatory requirements. Furthermore, through outreach and instruction for communities, schools, colleges and industry, via workshops, specialized workforce development activities, and new education modules, the combined results are expected to provide an accessible and open resource to assist entrepreneurs, decision makers and educators who foresee similar needs and challenges in their own local communities or regions. The project is funded by NSF's Office of International Science and Engineering (OISE) through the PIRE program.","aquamarine_atom","PIRE: U.S.-Denmark Cooperative Research and Education in Intermittency-Friendly Community-Scale Renewable Energy Micro-Grids",
"1306760","AGEP-T-Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate","HRD","AGEP","9/15/2013","3/21/2016","Joseph Shepherd","CA","California Institute of Technology","Continuing grant","Mark H. Leddy","2/28/2017","$288,000.00 ","","joseph.e.shepherd@caltech.edu","1200 E California Blvd","PASADENA","CA","1200 E California Blvd, PASADENA, CA","911250600","6263956219","EHR","1515","1253, 1515, 1712, 1978, 7335, 9134, 8212","$0.00 ","The California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate was created in response to the NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) program solicitation (NSF 12-554) for the AGEP-Transformation (AGEP-T) track. The AGEP-T track targets strategic alliances of institutions and organizations to develop, implement, and study innovative evidence-based models and standards for STEM graduate education, postdoctoral training, and academic STEM career preparation that eliminate or mitigate negative factors and promote positive practices for URMs.<br/><br/>The California AGEP is a collaboration between four doctoral degree granting institutions in California, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of California at Los Angeles, Stanford University, and California Institute of Technology. The vision of the California AGEP is to establish an alliance to ensure that underrepresented minority (URM) PhDs from alliance institutions, in much larger numbers, aspire to and populate the ranks of the postdoctoral population, the faculty at competitive research and teaching institutions, the federally funded national laboratories, and scientific think tanks. The California Alliance focuses on increasing diversity in the academic fields with the greatest URMs: the mathematical, physical, and computer sciences; and engineering (MPCS&E).<br/><br/>The goal of the California AGEP is to significantly increase the movement of URM students into the most competitive research and teaching careers in the MPCS&E fields to systematically address ethnic underrepresentation in the particular STEM fields and at the institutions where it is most severe and remains seemingly intractable nationally. The California Alliance defines URMs as African Americans, Chicanos, Latinos, Native Alaskans, Native Pacific Islanders, and American Indians. CA-AGEP participants are US citizens who are enrolled as doctoral students, who are URMs, and who are in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period, including those who graduate during the award period, and URM postdoctoral fellows who are US citizens in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period.<br/><br/>The objectives of the California AGEP include:<br/>Objective 1. Create an unprecedented community of practice across the four institutions that include graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, faculty, and key administrators.<br/>Objective 2. Engage faculty as mentors to advance URM students' careers across these four institutions.<br/>Objective 3. Develop, implement, evaluate and set new standards for professional development.<br/>Objective 4. Promote URM PhD advancement to faculty and postdoctoral ranks in STEM through new partnerships and using new tools, and in partnership with federally funded national laboratories.<br/>Objective 5. Conduct research that leverages the architecture of the California Alliance to identify which of the specific programs and initiatives that are in effect in research universities working to increase diversity are most impactful in ensuring URM students' success and professional ascension in the MPCS&E fields, and more generally within STEM.<br/><br/>The activities that contribute to the model for this alliance are many and quite varied; they include: <br/>Objective 1: Hold an annual retreat, with both discipline-specific and cohort-specific sessions. Introduce students, postdocs and faculty to each other using in-person sessions, web site and new media. Create recruitment opportunity for faculty, departments, and national labs.<br/>Objective 2: The Internal Steering Committee (ISC) and the Implementation Team (IT) make faculty aware of California AGEP (CA-AGEP). Invite and stimulate alliance-wide faculty advisement and mentoring of CA-AGEP students & postdocs. Include substantial presence of faculty at the annual retreat. Engage faculty in development of professional development sessions. Engage faculty in recording and streaming of professional development activities on the campuses.<br/>Objective 3: Develop and institute a complete collection of professional development sessions & provide cross-alliance access to all CA-AGEP students. <br/>Objective 4: Develop and market new joint California Alliance postdocs. Offer postdoc opportunities to California Alliance students. Encourage departments to create further postdoc opportunities where strong applicant pool warrants this. Link all 4 CA-AGEP universities to the University of California President?s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP) for professional development and networking in an extended national postdoc community. Create database of CA-AGEP scholars and access at annual retreat to graduating PhDs for direct recruitment by CA-AGEP and other university department representatives and national labs.<br/>Objective 5: Conduct annual surveys of students with measures related to well-being, identification with the university, attitudes, experiences, perceptions, and performance. Conduct semi-structured interviews with students, postdocs and faculty. Collect and analyze mentor reports. Use of dismantling strategy in research<br/><br/>The CA-AGEP includes a social science research study that employs a dismantling treatment strategy to link exposure and utilization of the various initiatives and services offered to students through the CA-AGEP with individual and group outcomes. Individual student level attitudinal assessments draw primarily from the social-psychological and educational literature on factors that relate to achievement, both population-general (e.g., self-esteem) as well as measures of variables that specifically tap into URM students' experiences (e.g., experiences relating to racism). Institutional assessments focus on the qualities of the institutional programs and structures, and these measures tap into sociological-level variables.","mauve_atom","AGEP-T-Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate",
"1610350","Student Research Within Communities of Practice","DUE","IUSE","9/15/2016","9/12/2016","Russell Genet","CA","California Polytechnic State University Foundation","Standard Grant","R. Corby Hovis","8/31/2019","$298,949.00 ","Dwight Collins, John Kenney, Elizabeth Ambos","russmgenet@aol.com","One Grand Ave","San Luis Obispo","CA","One Grand Ave, San Luis Obispo, CA","934070830","8057562982","EHR","1998","8209, 9178","$0.00 ","Opportunities to conduct authentic research not only improve students' understanding of science but also promote their self-identification as scientists. This project will explore the potential to positively transform undergraduate science education through student research seminars that are specifically structured to produce peer-reviewed journal articles based on students' research within the confines of a single semester. At the outset of their college careers, students participating in this model will form student-managed teams within a supportive scientific ""community of practice."" The seminars will teach the students how science really works through projects that they themselves plan and manage. By conducting and publishing scientific research, the students will become -- both technically and sociologically -- real scientists.<br/><br/>For the past decade, Cuesta College, a community college in San Luis Obispo, California, has offered an astronomy research seminar with the format described above. Over 150 students have completed the seminar as coauthors of published papers, primarily reporting observations of visual double stars. Recently, the seminar has also been offered by nearby California Polytechnic State University, a public institution, as well as by Concordia University, a private institution in Irvine, California. This project will expand the seminar model to other areas of observational astronomy beyond double stars (but still within the small-telescope community of practice), such as observations of exoplanet transits, binary star eclipses, and pulsating stars. The investigators will also expand the model into environmental science, featuring three types of atmospheric measurement: (1) the size, distribution, and morphology of small atmospheric particles; (2) infrared and Raman spectroscopy of particulate matter that settles from the atmosphere; and (3) atmospheric gas samples analyzed with infrared spectroscopy, gas chromatography, and mass spectrometry. Results will be correlated with local weather conditions, road traffic data, sample location, and special climatic events such as forest fires and Santa Ana winds. Through the Council on Undergraduate Research (a partner in the project), the investigators will assess opportunities for applying the seminar's community-of-practice approach to other sciences beyond astronomy and environmental science and will organize a focus group of national education and policy experts, who will consider how to expand nationally and scaffold the research seminar's paradigm of students as scientists within a community of practice. One of the project's contributions to STEM education research will be to examine the impact of the seminar's malleable factors, moderators, and mediators on such student outcomes as motivation to become a scientist, critical thinking (enhanced by having research papers reviewed by other students, instructors, and external experts), improved project planning and management skills, writing skills, and preparing and giving presentations on research projects.","mauve_battery","Student Research Within Communities of Practice",
"1306683","AGEP-T Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate","HRD","AGEP","9/15/2013","8/24/2015","Robin Garrell","CA","University of California-Los Angeles","Continuing grant","Mark H. Leddy","2/28/2017","$309,000.00 ","","garrell@chem.ucla.edu","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211","LOS ANGELES","CA","11000 Kinross Avenue, Suite 211, LOS ANGELES, CA","900952000","3107940102","EHR","1515","1253, 1515, 1712, 1978, 7335, 9134, 8212","$0.00 ","The California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate was created in response to the NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) program solicitation (NSF 12-554) for the AGEP-Transformation (AGEP-T) track. The AGEP-T track targets strategic alliances of institutions and organizations to develop, implement, and study innovative evidence-based models and standards for STEM graduate education, postdoctoral training, and academic STEM career preparation that eliminate or mitigate negative factors and promote positive practices for URMs.<br/><br/>The California AGEP is a collaboration between four doctoral degree granting institutions in California, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of California at Los Angeles, Stanford University, and California Institute of Technology. The vision of the California AGEP is to establish an alliance to ensure that underrepresented minority (URM) PhDs from alliance institutions, in much larger numbers, aspire to and populate the ranks of the postdoctoral population, the faculty at competitive research and teaching institutions, the federally funded national laboratories, and scientific think tanks. The California Alliance focuses on increasing diversity in the academic fields with the greatest URMs: the mathematical, physical, and computer sciences; and engineering (MPCS&E).<br/><br/>The goal of the California AGEP is to significantly increase the movement of URM students into the most competitive research and teaching careers in the MPCS&E fields to systematically address ethnic underrepresentation in the particular STEM fields and at the institutions where it is most severe and remains seemingly intractable nationally. The California Alliance defines URMs as African Americans, Chicanos, Latinos, Native Alaskans, Native Pacific Islanders, and American Indians. CA-AGEP participants are US citizens who are enrolled as doctoral students, who are URMs, and who are in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period, including those who graduate during the award period, and URM postdoctoral fellows who are US citizens in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period.<br/><br/>The objectives of the California AGEP include:<br/>Objective 1. Create an unprecedented community of practice across the four institutions that include graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, faculty, and key administrators.<br/>Objective 2. Engage faculty as mentors to advance URM students' careers across these four institutions.<br/>Objective 3. Develop, implement, evaluate and set new standards for professional development.<br/>Objective 4. Promote URM PhD advancement to faculty and postdoctoral ranks in STEM through new partnerships and using new tools, and in partnership with federally funded national laboratories.<br/>Objective 5. Conduct research that leverages the architecture of the California Alliance to identify which of the specific programs and initiatives that are in effect in research universities working to increase diversity are most impactful in ensuring URM students' success and professional ascension in the MPCS&E fields, and more generally within STEM.<br/><br/>The activities that contribute to the model for this alliance are many and quite varied; they include: <br/>Objective 1: Hold an annual retreat, with both discipline-specific and cohort-specific sessions. Introduce students, postdocs and faculty to each other using in-person sessions, web site and new media. Create recruitment opportunity for faculty, departments, and national labs.<br/>Objective 2: The Internal Steering Committee (ISC) and the Implementation Team (IT) make faculty aware of California AGEP (CA-AGEP). Invite and stimulate alliance-wide faculty advisement and mentoring of CA-AGEP students & postdocs. Include substantial presence of faculty at the annual retreat. Engage faculty in development of professional development sessions. Engage faculty in recording and streaming of professional development activities on the campuses.<br/>Objective 3: Develop and institute a complete collection of professional development sessions & provide cross-alliance access to all CA-AGEP students. <br/>Objective 4: Develop and market new joint California Alliance postdocs. Offer postdoc opportunities to California Alliance students. Encourage departments to create further postdoc opportunities where strong applicant pool warrants this. Link all 4 CA-AGEP universities to the University of California President?s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP) for professional development and networking in an extended national postdoc community. Create database of CA-AGEP scholars and access at annual retreat to graduating PhDs for direct recruitment by CA-AGEP and other university department representatives and national labs.<br/>Objective 5: Conduct annual surveys of students with measures related to well-being, identification with the university, attitudes, experiences, perceptions, and performance. Conduct semi-structured interviews with students, postdocs and faculty. Collect and analyze mentor reports. Use of dismantling strategy in research<br/><br/>The CA-AGEP includes a social science research study that employs a dismantling treatment strategy to link exposure and utilization of the various initiatives and services offered to students through the CA-AGEP with individual and group outcomes. Individual student level attitudinal assessments draw primarily from the social-psychological and educational literature on factors that relate to achievement, both population-general (e.g., self-esteem) as well as measures of variables that specifically tap into URM students' experiences (e.g., experiences relating to racism). Institutional assessments focus on the qualities of the institutional programs and structures, and these measures tap into sociological-level variables.","mauve_atom","AGEP-T Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate",
"1407762","Topics in stochastic analysis and Malliavin calculus","DMS","PROBABILITY","8/1/2014","6/3/2015","Frederi Viens","IN","Purdue University","Standard Grant","Tomek Bartoszynski","7/31/2017","$150,000.00 ","","viens@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","MPS","1263","","$0.00 ","The central limit theorem (CLT) is a universality result for independent and identically distributed trials on which is based much statistical analysis in the sociological and natural sciences. The CLT's main conclusion is that aggregated data follows the so-called Gaussian law, also known as the normal or ""bell"" curve. But scientists in many fields from seismology to computer science to quantitative finance are finding that their data series have long-range correlations, which means that the CLT may or may not be a valid way of looking at how such data aggregates. The PI's work on correlated data sequences, and related questions, would show that the Gaussian-law behavior afforded by the CLT persists up to very long correlation lengths, with some quantitative differences with the standard CLT, such as an increase in how spread out averages tend to get. For instance, one of the PI's theoretical conjectures is that if correlation is long enough, it would take too much data in practice to be able to observe a CLT-type aggregation. The PI will study the effect of even longer-range correlations, showing that instead of bell-curve behavior, data could involve much higher levels of uncertainty (a.k.a. heavy tails), with an extremely slow rate of aggregation. This could be of some significance when applied to financial risk in the housing market: tools could be developed for sellers of institutional mortgage insurance products for highly correlated mortgages; they would help avoid errors in risk calculations, such as those made by the American International Group (AIG) in the years preceding the world financial crisis of 2008, which resulted in a taxpayer-funded bailout upwards of $ 180 billion. The PI also plans to study the implications of long-range correlations in so-called spin models which are useful in the physics of random media, where, unlike the example of mortgage-based financial derivatives, long-range correlations and heavy tails could have little or no influence on the average large-scale behavior. The PI's Ph.D. students will take part in both theoretical and applied aspects of the research, working with the PI to prove theorems and test their results in practice using numerics. Involving students in fundamental research with real-world applications will broadly disseminate scientific understanding. The PI systematically encourages students from underrepresented groups to join the research program.<br/><br/> The PI proposes a three-year research program in stochastic analysis, with two groups of topics. First, the complexity of asymptotic laws for variations of Gaussian processes with long-range correlations will be evidenced by searching for conditions implying normal, non-normal, and conditionally normal limits in general situations, including sharp convergence rates. Second, the PI will analyze densities, tails, and convex functionals, spin systems, and hitting probabilities, for general Malliavin-differentiable non-Gaussian processes and fields. A main set of tools is the new use of the Malliavin calculus for quantitative estimates of various distances between laws of random variables on Wiener space. This includes the PI's formula for the density of general random variables on Wiener space, proved with I. Nourdin in 2009. Another tool is the PI's comparison of convex functionals for random vectors and fields on Wiener space, proved in 2013 with I. Nourdin and G. Peccati. Yet another is the first sharp estimates of distances to the normal law on Wiener space, proved in 2012 and 2013 by Bierme, Bonami, Nourdin, and Peccati. The PI will forego power-scale model assumptions such as self-similarity and/or stationarity whenever possible, using instead assumptions which are intrinsic to general covariance structures. One of the consequence of the work will be to show that well-known behaviors in so-called critical cases for power variations can be artefacts of the chosen model classes. Another will be to find out the extend of the so-called Sherrington-Kirkpatrick universality class for spin systems in random media, and to determine behaviors when heavy tails and long-range correlations cause spin systems to exit this class. A third consequence should be to understand the critical cases for hitting probabilities of fractional Brownian motion.","salmon_battery","Topics in stochastic analysis and Malliavin calculus",
"1648897","A Conference on Humans, Machines and the Future of Work","IIS","INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARC, ROBUST INTELLIGENCE","11/1/2016","7/21/2016","Moshe Vardi","TX","William Marsh Rice University","Standard Grant","Hector Munoz-Avila","10/31/2017","$25,000.00 ","","vardi@rice.edu","6100 MAIN ST","Houston","TX","6100 MAIN ST, Houston, TX","770051827","7133484820","CSE","1640, 7495","7495, 7556","$0.00 ","This project supports a conference on ""Humans, Machines, and the Future of Work"" to be held at Rice University, in Houston, TX. The conference will focus on issues created by the impact of information technology on labor markets over the next 25 years, addressing questions such as: What advances in artificial intelligence, robotics and automation are expected over the next 25 years? What will be the impact of these advances on job creation, job destruction, and wages in the labor market? What skills are required for the job market of the future? How can education prepare workers for that job market? What educational changes are needed? What economic and social policies are required to integrate people whose skills do not match the needs of future labor markets? How can social mobility in such an environment be preserved and increased? The conference will feature 16 renowned speakers and panelists from academia, industry and leading think tanks with expertise in technology, economics, social sciences, and the humanities. The goal of the conference is to start a conversation between many academic disciplines on the future of work in order to make this topic a subject of ongoing academic inquiry, as well as a subject of public policy discussion.<br/><br/>The current understanding of the Information Technology Revolution is somewhat similar to the 1970s' understanding of global warming. Facts are known with some level of certainty. Computers are eliminating some jobs involving structured tasks in manufacturing, clerical work, and some other mid-skill occupations. At the same time, computers are creating new jobs in many other occupations, particularly for technically skilled people. Beyond these facts lies a broad landscape of speculation. Not much is known about the Information Technology Revolution's net effect on employment and wages. Equally important, not much is known about the speed at which the revolution is proceeding. To the extent this uncertainty can be reduced, it will require a joint effort by computer scientists, economists, sociologists, psychologists, and others. Addressing these issues is an important national challenge.","lime_battery","A Conference on Humans, Machines and the Future of Work",
"1535359","SBP: The Price of Parenting in STEM: Explaining Career Paths and Pay Consequences of Parenthood among Science and Engineering Professionals","DRL","RES ON GENDER IN SCI & ENGINE","9/1/2015","8/31/2015","Erin Cech","TX","William Marsh Rice University","Standard Grant","Jolene K. Jesse","8/31/2018","$396,639.00 ","","erin.a.cech@rice.edu","6100 MAIN ST","Houston","TX","6100 MAIN ST, Houston, TX","770051827","7133484820","EHR","1544","8212","$0.00 ","This proposal was submitted in response to EHR Core Research (ECR) program announcement NSF 15-509. As part of ECR, this project is funded by the Research on Gender in Science and Engineering (GSE) program. GSE seeks to understand and address gender-based differences in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education and workforce participation through education and implementation research that will lead to a larger and more diverse domestic STEM workforce. Over the past two decades, social science research has found that girls and women encounter barriers in STEM education and then face additional obstacles entering and advancing in STEM careers. Yet, the effects of motherhood and fatherhood on the careers of STEM professionals are not well studied. This research will explore whether parenting--especially motherhood--incurs penalties in STEM employment in terms of retention, advancement, and salary. Using a sociological theoretical perspective that socially structured life courses move through gendered institutions, the study will examine how parenthood shapes career trajectories, retention, and salaries for women and men in STEM fields. The proposed empirical research project will use representative, longitudinal data to analyze these parenthood effects among STEM professionals. The researchers will also investigate how these parenthood effects differ by race/ethnicity, education level, sector, and STEM field. The findings will inform theory about gender differences in retention across all career stages and efforts to develop interventions that improve women's long-term persistence and success in STEM.<br/><br/>This project will use nationally representative, longitudinal, restricted-use data of STEM professionals from the Nation Center for Science and Engineering's (NCSES) Science and Engineering Statistical Data System (SESTAT) to examine the effects of parenthood on career paths and pay. The sample (N=17,599) includes STEM professionals employed full-time in 2003 and followed through 2010. Through a series of bi- and multivariate statistical analyses, the researchers will address the following research questions: Who leaves full-time STEM employment after becoming a parent? Where do they go? How do these parenthood effects vary by gender, race/ethnicity, education level, sector, and STEM field? Is the cost in lost income of making a career change higher if respondents made the change for family reasons compared to other reasons? Among workers who remain in full-time STEM careers, how do gender, parenthood, education level, and race/ethnicity affect salary? Since a large majority of workers become parents at some point during their careers, understanding the gendered effects of parenthood on the careers of STEM practitioners is central to understanding the retention of talented women and men in these fields. The researchers will also look for systematic variation by race/ethnicity, education level, sector and STEM field.","mauve_battery","SBP: The Price of Parenting in STEM: Explaining Career Paths and Pay Consequences of Parenthood among Science and Engineering Professionals",
"1540589","GP-IMPACT: Broadening pathways to geosciences with an integrated program at The University of Michigan","ICER","IUSE","9/15/2015","7/27/2015","Gregory Dick","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Michael Jones","8/31/2018","$226,033.00 ","","gdick@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","GEO","1998","1697","$0.00 ","Several recent studies have showcased the national importance of the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines for our nation's prosperity and global competitiveness, as well as the urgency of both engaging and preparing the future STEM workforce. Within the geosciences, it is projected that there will be ~135,000 positions to fill in the next decade (AGI, 2014), greatly exceeding the number of available students earning advanced degrees in the geosciences. Resolving the severe shortage in the geosciences workforce is projected to require increased participation in the geosciences by underrepresented minorities (URM), which is currently well below that of other STEM disciplines. Low URM participation in the geosciences is a particularly acute problem at The University of Michigan (U-M), where the number of undergraduate URM students majoring in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences is approximately 5% of total majors. This is an important societal issue both from the practical standpoint of the geosciences workforce as well as ethical and sociological standpoints regarding the inherent value of diversity. This project aims to increase the proportion of URM students majoring in geosciences at U-M to a level that reflects the overall demographics of the state of Michigan. This will achieve the desired societal outcomes by (1) increasing the number of URM students trained in one of the nation's premiere geosciences departments at a flagship public university, and (2) advancing and disseminating knowledge on best practices for recruiting and retaining URM students in the geosciences. <br/><br/>The goal of this project is to substantially increase the number and success rate of URM students majoring in the geosciences at U-M. Although there are numerous activities already in place at U-M for recruiting and retaining diverse students in STEM disciplines, their focus is on engineering and biology, and only a few are applied to the geosciences. Further, these activities are currently disjointed, so there is no integrated mechanism for attracting and retaining URM students to pursue geosciences at U-M. The proposed project will build on these current, proven programs and create partnerships between organizations to support URM students at two critical junctures: between high school and 4-year institution geoscience degree programs, and between community college and 4-year institution geoscience degree programs. Five objectives will be pursued: (1) inspire and recruit high schools seniors to pursue geoscience at U-M; (2) establish infrastructure to support students interested in geosciences through the critical juncture between high school and college; (3) increase the number of URM students transferring from community colleges to U-M to study geosciences; (4) develop student interest in geosciences through research and field experiences; and (5) expose students to career opportunities in the geosciences. These objectives will be achieved through the development and implementation of new hands-on experiences in the classroom, lab, and field; a summer program to bridge high school and college for students interested in geosciences; social media and peer-mentoring activities designed to establish supportive student cohorts; application to the geosciences of established practices for recruiting students and facilitating transfer from community college; and development of media and interactions with professional geoscientists designed to highlight career opportunities.<br/><br/>This project will link the proposed activities together with existing and developing programs at U-M, all of which employ evidence-based methods. A novel aspect is that it will create a seamless and continuous pipeline for URM geosciences students from high school through the undergraduate years. Outcomes of this project will provide new perspectives on the importance of such an integrated approach to increasing diversity in the STEM fields. Quantitative comparisons of performance of students within the newly developed program to those not involved in the program, and those involved in other programs and in other STEM fields, will be conducted via an innovative University-wide data mining process. We will also assess student attitudes towards the various phases of the project with online surveys and face-to-face interviews. This generated evidence will be used to evaluate prospects for transfer of such integrated strategies to other disciplines, departments, and institutions.","charcoal_battery","GP-IMPACT: Broadening pathways to geosciences with an integrated program at The University of Michigan",
"1426819","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed","EAR","Global Systems Science, SEES Coastal","9/15/2014","9/9/2014","Peter Groffman","NY","Institute of Ecosystem Studies","Standard Grant","Judith Ellen Skog","8/31/2017","$529,378.00 ","J. Morgan Grove, Shannon LaDeau, Emma Rosi-Marshall","Peter.Groffman@asrc.cuny.edu","2801 SHARON TPKE","MILLBROOK","NY","2801 SHARON TPKE, MILLBROOK, NY","125450129","8456777600","GEO","7978, 8088","","$0.00 ","Excess nitrogen associated with urbanization is a critical threat to the sustainability of coastal systems across the globe. More than half of the estuaries in the United States show some level of impairment due to excess nitrogen. Concerns about nitrogen have intensified with the development of plans to achieve nutrient reductions required for compliance with new regulations. This project will resolve critical uncertainties related to the effects of urban stream and watershed restoration efforts on nitrogen dynamics. Human social and economic factors that affect the implementation of these efforts will also be addressed. The combined environmental, social and economic insights from this project have the potential to transform assessments and management of urban coastal sustainability across the globe. The research will build on ongoing relationships with environmental managers in Baltimore City and County in the areas of water quality and sustainability. Researchers will engage representatives from city, county and state government agencies; non-governmental organizations such as the Parks & People Foundation and Blue Water Baltimore; and local community groups through face-to-face interviews, webinars, and research summaries. The research team will also initiate a citizen science effort where residents collect data on pests and garbage associated with restoration efforts, and will determine whether participation as a citizen scientist increases knowledge of and enthusiasm for restoration practices. This effort will directly address concerns that many Baltimore residents have expressed about crime, pest production, and garbage associated with restoration activities. Additional broader impacts include training graduate and undergraduate students in sustainability science. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This project will address the complex interactions between biophysical and social science factors that underlie the effects of urbanization on coastal sustainability. Building on the coupled socio-ecological research of the National Science Foundation funded Baltimore urban Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) project, the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, the work will address the following questions: How efficient are stream restoration and installation of green infrastructure in reducing nitrogen delivery to the coast? Are these effects easily overwhelmed by degradation of fundamental sanitary infrastructure? Do coastal residents of different socio-economic status and distance to the coast know and care about the ecological integrity of receiving waters? Can citizen science efforts increase resident knowledge and interest in coastal water quality? A team of ecologists, engineers, geographers, sociologists and economists will evaluate the nitrogen benefits and public support for a series of old and new stream restoration projects in the Baltimore area and determine if the nitrogen benefits of these restorations and other green infrastructure interventions are significant and visible in watershed-scale nitrogen mass balances. The group will assess the willingness of stakeholders to adopt these interventions in neighborhoods varying in socio-economic status and distance to the coast and carry out economic and policy analyses of stream and watershed restoration efforts. This information will be used to identify areas within the urban to exurban complex where social and biophysical factors converge to create opportunities for restoration and revitalization.","charcoal_battery","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed",
"1427150","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed","EAR","Global Systems Science, SEES Coastal","9/15/2014","9/9/2014","Claire Welty","MD","University of Maryland Baltimore County","Standard Grant","Judith Ellen Skog","8/31/2017","$449,999.00 ","Edward Doheny, Andrew Miller","weltyc@umbc.edu","1000 Hilltop Circle","Baltimore","MD","1000 Hilltop Circle, Baltimore, MD","212500002","4104553140","GEO","7978, 8088","","$0.00 ","Excess nitrogen associated with urbanization is a critical threat to the sustainability of coastal systems across the globe. More than half of the estuaries in the United States show some level of impairment due to excess nitrogen. Concerns about nitrogen have intensified with the development of plans to achieve nutrient reductions required for compliance with new regulations. This project will resolve critical uncertainties related to the effects of urban stream and watershed restoration efforts on nitrogen dynamics. Human social and economic factors that affect the implementation of these efforts will also be addressed. The combined environmental, social and economic insights from this project have the potential to transform assessments and management of urban coastal sustainability across the globe. The research will build on ongoing relationships with environmental managers in Baltimore City and County in the areas of water quality and sustainability. Researchers will engage representatives from city, county and state government agencies; non-governmental organizations such as the Parks & People Foundation and Blue Water Baltimore; and local community groups through face-to-face interviews, webinars, and research summaries. The research team will also initiate a citizen science effort where residents collect data on pests and garbage associated with restoration efforts, and will determine whether participation as a citizen scientist increases knowledge of and enthusiasm for restoration practices. This effort will directly address concerns that many Baltimore residents have expressed about crime, pest production, and garbage associated with restoration activities. Additional broader impacts include training graduate and undergraduate students in sustainability science. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This project will address the complex interactions between biophysical and social science factors that underlie the effects of urbanization on coastal sustainability. Building on the coupled socio-ecological research of the National Science Foundation funded Baltimore urban Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) project, the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, the work will address the following questions: How efficient are stream restoration and installation of green infrastructure in reducing nitrogen delivery to the coast? Are these effects easily overwhelmed by degradation of fundamental sanitary infrastructure? Do coastal residents of different socio-economic status and distance to the coast know and care about the ecological integrity of receiving waters? Can citizen science efforts increase resident knowledge and interest in coastal water quality? A team of ecologists, engineers, geographers, sociologists and economists will evaluate the nitrogen benefits and public support for a series of old and new stream restoration projects in the Baltimore area and determine if the nitrogen benefits of these restorations and other green infrastructure interventions are significant and visible in watershed-scale nitrogen mass balances. The group will assess the willingness of stakeholders to adopt these interventions in neighborhoods varying in socio-economic status and distance to the coast and carry out economic and policy analyses of stream and watershed restoration efforts. This information will be used to identify areas within the urban to exurban complex where social and biophysical factors converge to create opportunities for restoration and revitalization.","charcoal_battery","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed",
"1624024","Scholars Award: An Investigation of the Technoscientific Flexibility of Research Infrastructure","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","11/12/2015","1/28/2016","David Ribes","WA","University of Washington","Standard Grant","Frederick M Kronz","6/30/2017","$95,649.00 ","","dribes@uw.edu","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE","Seattle","WA","4333 Brooklyn Ave NE, Seattle, WA","981950001","2065434043","SBE","7603","7567","$0.00 ","This is a proposal to analyze the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS) in order to bring to light important ways in which infrastructures adapt to changing scientific and social knowledge, and how such knowledge changes the way the object of study is understood. The researcher will use both archival and ethnographic research methods in carrying out the analysis.<br/><br/>The results of this research will be of interest not only to scientists interested in the relatively recent history of HIV/AIDS, but also political scientists, sociologists, organizational theory experts, and a wide-range of health policy experts. The results of the study will have substantial potential to impact science policy by providing insights for improving the design of future research infrastructure investments.","crimson_battery","Scholars Award: An Investigation of the Technoscientific Flexibility of Research Infrastructure",
"1538784","Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grant: Mechanisms For Long Term Maintenance Of Social Stability","BCS","DDRI Archaeology","7/1/2015","6/4/2015","C Michael Barton","AZ","Arizona State University","Standard Grant","John E. Yellen","6/30/2017","$25,143.00 ","Wendy Cegielski","Michael.barton@asu.edu","ORSPA","TEMPE","AZ","ORSPA, TEMPE, AZ","852816011","4809655479","SBE","7606","1391, 9179","$0.00 ","This project will examine mechanisms of social stability and the reasons why some social systems resist change. Social stability, or the persistence of social systems, is a fundamental feature without which human society is not possible. Understanding contexts and processes that resist change and that maintain social stability is crucial to predicting and managing the effects of the intensity and pace of change of the modern world. Previous scholarship has shown that social stability is not an inherent property of a social system and cannot be defined simply as the absence of change but must be explained. Social stability is embedded over time through the cumulative social dependencies created between individuals who choose to form a relationship. The peculiar formations of these dependencies result in different levels of social cohesion, akin to ""social glue"", that act to promote or thwart social stability. Since the embedding of social stability is a cumulative process that plays out through time, archaeology is uniquely positioned with an established corpus of tools and the long-term perspective necessary to problematize social stability, to establish contexts in which societies resist change, good or bad, and ultimately to understand how, why, and when social transformation does or does not take place.<br/>The research will be conducted by Wendy Cegielski, under the direction of Dr. C. Michael Barton, as part of her doctoral dissertation research It will examine change or lack thereof in social complexity by combining quantitative modeling and the comparative archaeological record where the social system is represented by networks of relations between settlements. From prior sociological research, it has been demonstrated that multiple paths to social cohesion exist and the particular evolution of these paths may be responsible for a society's long-term resistance to change. Subsequently, recognizing the mechanisms governing these paths is important to understanding the evolution of social complexity. In order to accomplish this goal, this project uses formal, abstract modeling techniques called Exponential Random Graph Models from Network Science, the study of relational data. These methods move beyond static snapshots of data toward the investigation of the role of cumulative, bottom-up drivers of stability and change, and their relation to empirical record. The research will be conducted in eastern Spain along the Mediterranean and on the material culture of the Valencian Bronze Age, where prior research appears to indicate little, regional social change for 700 years. Previous scholarship has demonstrated the robusticity across complex social systems of the network theory used in this research; thus the methods proposed can be applied cross-culturally and across disciplines. This research also will increase collaboration between US and international institutions and provide new opportunities for technical training in these innovative techniques.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grant: Mechanisms For Long Term Maintenance Of Social Stability",
"1427000","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed","EAR","Global Systems Science, SEES Coastal","9/15/2014","9/9/2014","Lawrence Band","NC","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill","Standard Grant","Judith Ellen Skog","8/31/2017","$126,146.00 ","","lband@email.unc.edu","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200","CHAPEL HILL","NC","104 AIRPORT DR STE 2200, CHAPEL HILL, NC","275991350","9199663411","GEO","7978, 8088","","$0.00 ","Excess nitrogen associated with urbanization is a critical threat to the sustainability of coastal systems across the globe. More than half of the estuaries in the United States show some level of impairment due to excess nitrogen. Concerns about nitrogen have intensified with the development of plans to achieve nutrient reductions required for compliance with new regulations. This project will resolve critical uncertainties related to the effects of urban stream and watershed restoration efforts on nitrogen dynamics. Human social and economic factors that affect the implementation of these efforts will also be addressed. The combined environmental, social and economic insights from this project have the potential to transform assessments and management of urban coastal sustainability across the globe. The research will build on ongoing relationships with environmental managers in Baltimore City and County in the areas of water quality and sustainability. Researchers will engage representatives from city, county and state government agencies; non-governmental organizations such as the Parks & People Foundation and Blue Water Baltimore; and local community groups through face-to-face interviews, webinars, and research summaries. The research team will also initiate a citizen science effort where residents collect data on pests and garbage associated with restoration efforts, and will determine whether participation as a citizen scientist increases knowledge of and enthusiasm for restoration practices. This effort will directly address concerns that many Baltimore residents have expressed about crime, pest production, and garbage associated with restoration activities. Additional broader impacts include training graduate and undergraduate students in sustainability science. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This project will address the complex interactions between biophysical and social science factors that underlie the effects of urbanization on coastal sustainability. Building on the coupled socio-ecological research of the National Science Foundation funded Baltimore urban Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) project, the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, the work will address the following questions: How efficient are stream restoration and installation of green infrastructure in reducing nitrogen delivery to the coast? Are these effects easily overwhelmed by degradation of fundamental sanitary infrastructure? Do coastal residents of different socio-economic status and distance to the coast know and care about the ecological integrity of receiving waters? Can citizen science efforts increase resident knowledge and interest in coastal water quality? A team of ecologists, engineers, geographers, sociologists and economists will evaluate the nitrogen benefits and public support for a series of old and new stream restoration projects in the Baltimore area and determine if the nitrogen benefits of these restorations and other green infrastructure interventions are significant and visible in watershed-scale nitrogen mass balances. The group will assess the willingness of stakeholders to adopt these interventions in neighborhoods varying in socio-economic status and distance to the coast and carry out economic and policy analyses of stream and watershed restoration efforts. This information will be used to identify areas within the urban to exurban complex where social and biophysical factors converge to create opportunities for restoration and revitalization.","charcoal_battery","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed",
"1613440","The Micro-Process of Social Responsibility in Organizations: A Bottom-Up Perspective Workshop; April 12 and 13, 2016; Anaheim, California","SES","Science of Organizations","1/1/2016","12/22/2015","Deborah Rupp","IN","Purdue University","Standard Grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","12/31/2017","$50,000.00 ","","ruppd@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","SBE","8031","7556","$0.00 ","Nontechnical Description of Significance and Importance <br/><br/>There is more pressure than ever before for organizations to actively evidence their social responsibility. This pressure comes from a variety of stakeholders, including employees, consumers, interest groups, and various industry and regulatory bodies. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) comes in many forms, including corporate philanthropy, volunteerism programs, compliance to voluntary codes of conduct, environmental sustainability initiatives, and personnel practices focused on diversity, fairness, and well-being. CSR has become both ubiquitous and entrenched within firm practices, and therefore represents a major operational consideration for organizations. Despite the omnipresence of CSR within organizations, as well as the increasing demand for CSR among stakeholders, there lacks a robust scientific literature focused particularly on the various multilevel influences involved in CSR decision making, implementation, participation, and evaluation. That is, whereas CSR research has largely focused on the relationship between firm social performance and economic performance, as well as the sociological predictors and outcomes of CSR, far less attention has been placed on the structural characteristics of CSR initiatives, as well as psychological phenomena influencing socially responsible and irresponsible behaviors within organizations. This includes a) the motives of leaders and top management teams in building CSR portfolios; b) the drivers of employee compliance with, advocacy for, and/or participation in CSR initiatives; c) the mechanisms by which firm-level CSR actions influence the attitudes and behaviors of organizational members; and d) the impact of CSR initiatives on society. The rich literatures on motivation, decision-making, pro-social behavior, ethics, program evaluation, etc. can be fruitfully applied to more fully understand CSR phenomena. The purpose of the proposed workshop is to identify key conceptual rifts, integrate diverse perspectives, and develop a research agenda focused on ""micro"" CSR processes, as well as CSR research that is both multi-disciplinary and multilevel in nature. As CSR activities connect organizations to government agencies and other regulatory bodies, a more integrated and multilevel understanding of CSR can aid understanding and facilitation of relations between the public and private sectors. Discoveries in this area can also help to facilitate diversity, fairness, and health within organizations and society at large. <br/><br/>Technical Description <br/><br/>The proposed workshop will bring together leading corporate social responsibility (CSR) scholars with scholars from other areas within the organizational sciences (e.g., leadership, individual differences, cross-cultural psychology, human resource management, humanitarian work psychology, occupational health psychology, diversity). The lack of direct communication among these sets of researchers is unfortunate insofar as work from both groups can meaningfully contribute to the other. The focus will be on cross-pollination, as well as the sharing and joint-development of new ideas. The workshop will include keynote presentations, topical presentations, facilitated discussions, group work, multidisciplinary discussant comments, and networking opportunities. A key goal will be the identification of new directions for research in this area, the catalyzing of new collaborative and multidisciplinary projects among scholars who might otherwise remain isolated from one another, and the application of advanced research methodologies that have yet to be applied within this domain. Publically disseminated workshop outcomes will include a) a workshop website, containing the program, speaker bios, and where permitted, presentation materials and recordings; b) a press release with information about the event and the link to all of the corresponding materials, c) an overall report summarizing the conclusions, recommendations, and agenda items generated throughout the workshop.","crimson_battery","The Micro-Process of Social Responsibility in Organizations: A Bottom-Up Perspective Workshop; April 12 and 13, 2016; Anaheim, California",
"1547139","Collaborative Research: Patronage and Political Exchange Networks in a Municipal Legislature: Discretionary Spending on Nonprofit Organizations in New York City","SES","Science of Organizations","7/1/2015","6/9/2015","Nicole Marwell","IL","University of Chicago","Standard Grant","Chu-Hsiang Chang","9/30/2016","$63,223.00 ","","nicole.marwell@baruch.cuny.edu","5801 South Ellis Avenue","Chicago","IL","5801 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, IL","606375418","7737028669","SBE","8031","","$0.00 ","Scholars from a wide variety of disciplines increasingly agree that the governance of contemporary economic and political life operates through complex and shifting webs of organizational relations. This complexity often hides the locus of decision making, raising key problems of accountability for citizens and interest groups of all kinds. Public policy governance systems offer important opportunities to understand these dynamics and their consequences, because public policy by nature attempts to adjudicate among competing interests to produce some form of public good. This project examines legislators' decisions to allocate public funds to private nonprofit organizations that provide social services in a large city. As the proportion of publicly-supported welfare services privately provided has grown, nonprofit organizations increasingly mediate the relationship between local legislators and their constituencies. In turn, nonprofits have become increasingly dependent on government contracts, leaving the amount and quality of public services that citizens experience greatly affected by nonprofits' location and capacity to attract funding. <br/><br/>How legislators allocate discretionary public funds to nonprofits reveals two key dynamics of social welfare governance: patronage relationships between legislators, their constituencies, and local nonprofits; and political exchange relationships between legislators. Patronage involves delivering and claiming credit for public resources allocated to a legislator's district. Presumably, the reward for successful patronage is re-election by one's constituents. Political exchange involves deals cut among legislators that lead to the allocation of public resources to a legislator's district, and/or to specific votes on legislation. Focusing on the network structure produced by this governance system and its consequences for specific citizen constituencies, this project asks: (1) What is the structure of patronage relationships between municipal legislators and their district constituencies? And how does it relate to the re-election prospects of municipal legislators, the growth of nonprofit organizations, and citizens' needs? (2) What is the structure of political exchange relationships among municipal legislators? And what are legislators' individual and district characteristics that make them more likely to initiate and reciprocate exchange patterns? (3) How does the structure of political exchange relate to whether consequential legislative proposals are passed?<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit: This project contributes to three distinct literatures: (1) By studying sociological processes through a social network approach, it provides a contemporary picture of patronage patterns at the community level, assesses the mutual dependence of legislators and nonprofit organizations, and evaluates the distributive consequences for citizens' welfare. (2) Public administration scholars are concerned with the relative balance of managerial best practices and distributional equity in state administration. This is the first study that examines how patronage fits into a larger system of merit-based public service contracting. (3) This project also advances political science's understanding of distributive politics by disentangling mechanisms of patronage and exchange at the local level.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts: In conjunction with prior NSF-funded work, this project will allow comparison of 3 mechanisms of public resource allocation to nonprofit organizations: patronage, political exchange, and competition. Project results will be communicated via a written policy brief and presentations to audiences in government, the nonprofit sector, and the media. The dataset resulted from the project will offer an important resource to scholars, practitioners, and government officials. It also provides a model set of procedures for constructing datasets for other cities or states that have similar discretionary forms of public resource allocation.","crimson_battery","Collaborative Research: Patronage and Political Exchange Networks in a Municipal Legislature: Discretionary Spending on Nonprofit Organizations in New York City",
"1608810","Northwest Passage Project","DRL","Polar Special Initiatives, AISL","9/1/2016","8/27/2016","Gail Scowcroft","RI","University of Rhode Island","Continuing grant","Valentine H. Kass","8/31/2019","$1,702,772.00 ","David Clark, Brice Loose, Dwight Coleman","gailscow@mail.uri.edu","RESEARCH OFFICE","KINGSTON","RI","RESEARCH OFFICE, KINGSTON, RI","28811967","4018742635","EHR","017Y, 7259","9150, 1079, 7259, 8212","$0.00 ","The Northwest Passage Project (NPP) is a collaborative effort between the University of Rhode Island (URI), Inner Space Center (ISC), Graduate School of Oceanography (GSO), the film company David Clark Inc., and several other partners, including six Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) and three informal science education institutions. The project centers on a research expedition into the Arctic's Northwest Passage, which will engage intergenerational cohorts of high school, undergraduate, and graduate students in hands-on research aboard the U.S. tall ship SSV Oliver Hazard Perry (OHP). During the expedition, a professional film crew will produce a two-hour documentary focused on the NPP's innovative model of interdisciplinary informal STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) learning and highlight the expedition's research, participants, and the sociological issues related to the changing Arctic environment. Because the Canadian Arctic is remote and costly to access, the project will maximize NSF's investment by giving broad audiences access to the science and excitement of the expedition through the documentary. In addition, this informal science learning opportunity will not only engage students with scientists in authentic research, but also train the students to deliver daily live broadcasts from sea to three well-established U.S. informal science education institutions: the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History (NMNH), the Exploratorium, and the Alaska Sea Life Center (ASLC). The daily broadcasts will also reach the public in real time via the project's interactive website, providing the opportunity for people to post questions to the scientists and students onboard the ship. The NPP has great potential to benefit society by enhancing awareness of the changing Arctic's ecosystems and increasing science literacy. The hands-on research experiences will enhance the college readiness of the participating high school students and encourage the undergraduate students from the six partner MSIs to consider a graduate course of study and/or pursue STEM careers. The graduate students will also be more career-ready, as they gain public communication and leadership skills necessary for 21st century scientists. <br/><br/>The Northwest Passage Project is designed to advance knowledge and understanding within the practice of informal science education, as well as in the field of Arctic science. The project goals include: increasing public awareness and understanding of the changing Arctic ecosystem; increase public understanding about Arctic research and the scientific process; increase the Informal Science Education (ISE) field's understanding of the public's learning process when engaged in live interactions with scientists and student 'science communicators'; increase the ISE field's understanding of the value of immersive science experiences and impact on students from underserved and underrepresented populations; and to build or extend the capacity of ISE institutions to make connections between polar scientists, students, journalists and the public. The NPP is creative in that it combines the engagement of students in field-based scientific research, live broadcasts from sea to ISE institutions, and the production of a full-scale documentary for public audiences. A potentially transformative component to the ISE activities involves six Minority Serving Institution partners--Florida International University; University of Illinois, Chicago; California State University, Channel Islands; Texas State University; Virginia Commonwealth University and City College of New York--whose students will have the opportunity for a life-changing experience that may tip the scale toward their interest in STEM careers. Each of these students will develop news stories, host screenings of the film at their respective campuses, and share their experiences with peers, providing visual role models for other underrepresented students, who may never have thought themselves capable of becoming a scientist or science communicator. An additional project goal is to enhance the capacity and infrastructure of the three ISE partner institutions so that they may receive live broadcasts from the Inner Space Center in the future, beyond the funding period of the project. People, Places & Design Research will conduct the project's front-end and formative evaluation; MEM & Associates will conduct the summative evaluation. Some of the key evaluation questions will be: <br/>* Have ISE and MSI institution public visitors, who view either the live broadcasts or the documentary film (or both), become more aware of the changing Arctic ecosystem and the importance of scientific research in the Arctic?<br/>* What is the relative impact of the live broadcasts compared to the finished documentary, and the strengths and weakness of the respective media in translating the on-board experience?<br/>* Does a real environmental and social context for scientific evidence stimulate audiences to become more interested in the role of science/STEM? <br/>* Have students gained leadership skills and the ability to communicate science to their peers? <br/>* Have students increased their motivation and interest in pursuing STEM careers?<br/>This project is funded by the Advancing Informal STEM Learning (AISL) program, which seeks to advance new approaches to, and evidence-based understanding of, the design and development of STEM learning in informal environments. This includes providing multiple pathways for broadening access to and engagement in STEM learning experiences, advancing innovative research on and assessment of STEM learning in informal environments, and developing understandings of deeper learning by participants.","mauve_atom","Northwest Passage Project",
"1420532","How Novice Elementary Teachers' Social Networks Affect Ambitious Math Instruction","DRL","REAL, Core R&D Programs","8/1/2014","8/22/2016","Ken Frank","MI","Michigan State University","Continuing grant","Karen King","7/31/2017","$1,944,786.00 ","Serena Salloum, Kristen Bieda, Peter Youngs","kenfrank@msu.edu","Office of Sponsored Programs","East Lansing","MI","Office of Sponsored Programs, East Lansing, MI","488242600","5173555040","EHR","7625, 7980","8817, CL10","$0.00 ","The study seeks to identify the mechanisms through novice teachers' social networks shape their mathematics instruction. The researchers will collect surveys, lesson plans, classroom observations, teacher tasks, and student work samples from 200 teachers across districts in three states with different contexts around standards and state assessments. Using social network analyses frameworks, the study will model the novice teachers' future teaching using ambitious mathematics instruction as measured by the Instructional Quality Assessment based on measures of these teachers' mathematical knowledge for teaching, and use of ambitious mathematics instruction and characteristics of the novice teachers' social network, as well as their interactions. Qualitative analyses will be used to support the results from the models. This study is framed by an interdisciplinary approach that integrates a cognitive component (focused on teachers' knowledge) and a sociological component (focused on the social context of teachers) in order to understand novices' planning and enactment of ambitious math instruction. No large-scale studies have used such an approach to measure how these factors shape novices' math instruction. The work will contribute to understanding factors that influence beginning elementary teachers learning in the early stages of their careers.<br/><br/>This study will advance knowledge and understanding of STEM learning environments by examining how novice elementary teachers' math instruction is influenced by the knowledge sharing, behavior, and expectations of others. A key issue in the improvement of mathematics education is the support beginning elementary teachers of mathematics, particularly as the number of beginning teachers increases at all grade levels. This project, funded in the Research on Education and Learning program, will study 200 novice elementary teachers and their support networks in schools in three Midwestern states, using innovative research methods in social networking to understand the relationships among teacher knowledge, teaching practice, and the influence of their peers and administrators on the novice teachers' future teaching practice. It is important for districts to organize human capital and professional development in ways that strongly support these novice elementary teachers in teaching mathematics for increased student achievement. The results of the study will provide recommendations for when schools and districts should provide induction and professional development programs for novice teachers related to their mathematical knowledge for teaching and how they can help novices respond to possible conflicts among school-based norms, curricular standards, teacher evaluation instruments, and external professional development.","mauve_atom","How Novice Elementary Teachers' Social Networks Affect Ambitious Math Instruction",
"1331220","Postdoctoral Research:Science and the Permitting Process for Resource Extraction","SES","ARCTIC SOCIAL SCIENCES, SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","8/15/2013","7/24/2014","Bindu Panikkar","MA","Northeastern University","Continuing grant","Frederick M Kronz","9/30/2016","$149,760.00 ","","panikkar.bindu@gmail.com","360 HUNTINGTON AVE","BOSTON","MA","360 HUNTINGTON AVE, BOSTON, MA","21155005","6173732508","SBE","5221, 7603","","$0.00 ","This project will be carried out by a postdoctoral fellow trained in Environmental Engineering and mentored by an environmental sociologist. The PI will study the permitting process for the Pebble Partnership 2013-2015, and the resulting scientific, policy, legal, and ethical controversies raised by the project.<br/><br/>The results will provide useful knowledge for science and technology studies and regulatory science.","crimson_atom","Postdoctoral Research:Science and the Permitting Process for Resource Extraction",
"1642226","Postdoctoral Research:Science and the Permitting Process for Resource Extraction","SES","ARCTIC SOCIAL SCIENCES","5/1/2016","8/17/2016","Bindu Panikkar","VT","University of Vermont & State Agricultural College","Continuing grant","Frederick M Kronz","10/31/2016","$72,459.00 ","","panikkar.bindu@gmail.com","85 SO. PROSPECT ST.","BURLINGTON","VT","85 SO. PROSPECT ST., BURLINGTON, VT","54050160","8026563660","SBE","5221","7567","$0.00 ","This project will be carried out by a postdoctoral fellow trained in Environmental Engineering and mentored by an environmental sociologist. The PI will study the permitting process for the Pebble Partnership 2013-2015, and the resulting scientific, policy, legal, and ethical controversies raised by the project.<br/><br/>The results will provide useful knowledge for science and technology studies and regulatory science.","crimson_atom","Postdoctoral Research:Science and the Permitting Process for Resource Extraction",
"1306595","AGEP-T-Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate","HRD","AGEP","9/15/2013","8/15/2016","C. Page Chamberlain","CA","Stanford University","Continuing grant","Mark H. Leddy","2/28/2017","$309,000.00 ","","chamb@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","EHR","1515","1253, 1515, 1712, 1978, 7335, 9134","$0.00 ","The California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate was created in response to the NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) program solicitation (NSF 12-554) for the AGEP-Transformation (AGEP-T) track. The AGEP-T track targets strategic alliances of institutions and organizations to develop, implement, and study innovative evidence-based models and standards for STEM graduate education, postdoctoral training, and academic STEM career preparation that eliminate or mitigate negative factors and promote positive practices for URMs.<br/><br/>The California AGEP is a collaboration between four doctoral degree granting institutions in California, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of California at Los Angeles, Stanford University, and California Institute of Technology. The vision of the California AGEP is to establish an alliance to ensure that underrepresented minority (URM) PhDs from alliance institutions, in much larger numbers, aspire to and populate the ranks of the postdoctoral population, the faculty at competitive research and teaching institutions, the federally funded national laboratories, and scientific think tanks. The California Alliance focuses on increasing diversity in the academic fields with the greatest URMs: the mathematical, physical, and computer sciences; and engineering (MPCS&E).<br/><br/>The goal of the California AGEP is to significantly increase the movement of URM students into the most competitive research and teaching careers in the MPCS&E fields to systematically address ethnic underrepresentation in the particular STEM fields and at the institutions where it is most severe and remains seemingly intractable nationally. The California Alliance defines URMs as African Americans, Chicanos, Latinos, Native Alaskans, Native Pacific Islanders, and American Indians. CA-AGEP participants are US citizens who are enrolled as doctoral students, who are URMs, and who are in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period, including those who graduate during the award period, and URM postdoctoral fellows who are US citizens in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period.<br/><br/>The objectives of the California AGEP include:<br/>Objective 1. Create an unprecedented community of practice across the four institutions that include graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, faculty, and key administrators.<br/>Objective 2. Engage faculty as mentors to advance URM students' careers across these four institutions.<br/>Objective 3. Develop, implement, evaluate and set new standards for professional development.<br/>Objective 4. Promote URM PhD advancement to faculty and postdoctoral ranks in STEM through new partnerships and using new tools, and in partnership with federally funded national laboratories.<br/>Objective 5. Conduct research that leverages the architecture of the California Alliance to identify which of the specific programs and initiatives that are in effect in research universities working to increase diversity are most impactful in ensuring URM students' success and professional ascension in the MPCS&E fields, and more generally within STEM.<br/><br/>The activities that contribute to the model for this alliance are many and quite varied; they include: <br/>Objective 1: Hold an annual retreat, with both discipline-specific and cohort-specific sessions. Introduce students, postdocs and faculty to each other using in-person sessions, web site and new media. Create recruitment opportunity for faculty, departments, and national labs.<br/>Objective 2: The Internal Steering Committee (ISC) and the Implementation Team (IT) make faculty aware of California AGEP (CA-AGEP). Invite and stimulate alliance-wide faculty advisement and mentoring of CA-AGEP students & postdocs. Include substantial presence of faculty at the annual retreat. Engage faculty in development of professional development sessions. Engage faculty in recording and streaming of professional development activities on the campuses.<br/>Objective 3: Develop and institute a complete collection of professional development sessions & provide cross-alliance access to all CA-AGEP students. <br/>Objective 4: Develop and market new joint California Alliance postdocs. Offer postdoc opportunities to California Alliance students. Encourage departments to create further postdoc opportunities where strong applicant pool warrants this. Link all 4 CA-AGEP universities to the University of California President?s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP) for professional development and networking in an extended national postdoc community. Create database of CA-AGEP scholars and access at annual retreat to graduating PhDs for direct recruitment by CA-AGEP and other university department representatives and national labs.<br/>Objective 5: Conduct annual surveys of students with measures related to well-being, identification with the university, attitudes, experiences, perceptions, and performance. Conduct semi-structured interviews with students, postdocs and faculty. Collect and analyze mentor reports. Use of dismantling strategy in research<br/><br/>The CA-AGEP includes a social science research study that employs a dismantling treatment strategy to link exposure and utilization of the various initiatives and services offered to students through the CA-AGEP with individual and group outcomes. Individual student level attitudinal assessments draw primarily from the social-psychological and educational literature on factors that relate to achievement, both population-general (e.g., self-esteem) as well as measures of variables that specifically tap into URM students' experiences (e.g., experiences relating to racism). Institutional assessments focus on the qualities of the institutional programs and structures, and these measures tap into sociological-level variables.","mauve_atom","AGEP-T-Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate",
"1607630","Chronicling a Major Scientific Breakthrough: a Longitudinal Video Documentary of Advanced LIGO and the Beginning of Gravitational Wave Astrophysics","PHY","AISL","7/1/2016","6/21/2016","David Reitze","CA","California Institute of Technology","Continuing grant","Pedro Marronetti","6/30/2018","$82,312.00 ","","reitze@ligo.caltech.edu","1200 E California Blvd","PASADENA","CA","1200 E California Blvd, PASADENA, CA","911250600","6263956219","MPS","7259","","$0.00 ","This award supports the production of a longitudinal video documentary of the evolution of Advanced LIGO and will chronicle the most critical and exciting period in the history of gravitational wave science in the past 100 years. LIGO resumed the search for gravitational waves in 2015 with a newly upgraded detector and on September 14, 2015 detected gravitational waves for the first time, astounding not only the scientific community but the entire world. Using footage captured at critical periods between August 2015 and March 2016 during the discovery phase as well as new filming taking place over the next two years, the team will produce films which will impact at least hundreds of thousands of people and possibly many more than that. The goal is to educate, inspire, and motivate. Students at the high school and undergraduate levels may be more inspired to pursue STEM careers after watching scientific vignettes focusing on the exciting science and technology of Advanced LIGO. Scientific historians and sociologists will have the opportunity to use the hundreds of hours of available film clips as a video database to investigate in detail the discovery of gravitational waves as a case study of large scale collaborations (""Big Science""). Videos highlighting the cutting edge technological advances brought about by Advanced LIGO and their impacts on other fields of science and technology may prove effective for educating officials and policy makers on the benefits of fundamental science.<br/><br/>During the course of the project, a series of professionally made video shorts will be produced for the LIGO Laboratory and LSC for education and public outreach purposes through distribution on LIGO Laboratory, LSC web sites, and the LIGO YouTube Channel. Through an extensive series of film shoots, XPLR Productions will work with the LIGO Laboratory and the LIGO Scientific Collaboration (LSC) to capture key moments as LIGO scientists work to achieve Advanced LIGO's design sensitivity and carry out a series of observing runs over the next two years. The team will produce a series of video shorts explaining the important scientific and technological concepts and issues of Advanced LIGO by the scientific experts who create them. In the longer term, footage will used to produce either a feature length documentary film or a twelve-part series on television entitled 'LIGO' chronicling the discovery of gravitational waves and the exploration of exotic high-energy astrophysical phenomena such as colliding black holes. Intended for broad distribution through cinema or television, 'LIGO' will bring science to life for a wide audience.","salmon_atom","Chronicling a Major Scientific Breakthrough: a Longitudinal Video Documentary of Advanced LIGO and the Beginning of Gravitational Wave Astrophysics",
"1624386","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Negotiating Institutional Complexity in Mental Health Courts","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","6/15/2016","6/1/2016","Alford Young","MI","University of Michigan Ann Arbor","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","5/31/2017","$30,881.00 ","Cheyney Dobson","ayoun@umich.edu","3003 South State St. Room 1062","Ann Arbor","MI","3003 South State St. Room 1062, Ann Arbor, MI","481091274","7347636438","SBE","1372","","$0.00 ","Mental health courts are a type of specialty court, a relatively recent but quickly growing intervention within the court system that is part of a larger trend of criminal justice interventions aimed at decarceration. The key distinguishing feature linking these interventions is the hybridization of institutional logics, as the criminal justice system becomes engaged in service provision to reduce re-offending. This project investigates the operation of two urban mental health courts from the perspectives of both the court staff and its ""clients,"" asking a) How do staff and clients draw on the competing logics of the service delivery and criminal justice systems? b) What shapes these processes? and c) What are the consequences for the court intervention and the logics themselves? <br/><br/>Through a combination of in-depth interviews and ethnographic observation of court staff and clients, this project will gain a comprehensive vantage point on the processes by which competing logics are negotiated by actors differently positioned vis-a-vis the organizational setting. In so doing, it will extend the literature on institutional logics and bring medical sociologists and sociolegal scholars into conversation as well as contribute to literature on the changing role of the state in the lives of marginal groups through the frontline work carried out in public institutions.","crimson_battery","Doctoral Dissertation Research: Negotiating Institutional Complexity in Mental Health Courts",
"1329225","From Dualism to Integration Investigating Development of Engineering Students' Social and Technical Perceptions","EEC","ENGINEERING EDUCATION","9/1/2013","5/17/2016","William Oakes","IN","Purdue University","Standard Grant","Elliot Douglas","8/31/2017","$263,990.00 ","James Huff, Carla Zoltowski, Brent Jesiek, William Graziano","oakes@purdue.edu","Young Hall","West Lafayette","IN","Young Hall, West Lafayette, IN","479072114","7654941055","ENG","1340","110E","$0.00 ","From Dualism to ""Integration"":Investigating Development of Engineering Students' Social and Technical Perceptions<br/><br/>Engineering education provides students with foundational technical knowledge and skills, as well as a sense of engineering identity. Yet as prior sociological studies suggest, most engineering degree programs place primary emphasis on technical topics, which tends to marginalize or exclude the social dimensions of engineering identity and work practices. This investigation responds to such research by exploring engineering students' cognitive perceptions of their social and technical worlds, the relationship between their perceptions of these two domains, and how such perceptions develop. This study employs an embedded, sequential mixed-methods approach, which includes an interpretive phenomenological analysis of how engineering students integrate and/or split their social and technical perceptions of engineering ability and identity. This qualitative portion of the study is preceded and supported by data from instruments that probe how students perceive and orient to their social and technical worlds.<br/><br/>The proposed investigation builds on literature from the social sciences, psychology, and engineering education by examining students' technical and social perceptions. It fills a gap in the existing research by investigating the cognitive models that undergird how students develop the integrated, sociotechnical perception needed to address the broad, global challenges facing engineers today. This project lays key foundations for reforming curricula to enhance the development of these perceptive abilities and associated skills within engineering education. This investigation has potential for broad impact by informing engineering educators of critical experiences that shape the technical and social perceptions of students. The findings can be used to develop curricula, assessment techniques, and pedagogical strategies that better enable educators to guide students into a coherent integration of their social and technical perceptions. Such integration can cultivate engineers with enhanced capabilities who can tackle the engineering problems marked by sociotechnical complexity, including the ""grand challenges"" that face society. Integrating social and technical perceptions within the curriculum also has potential to enhance diversity in engineering by appealing to underrepresented groups of students who may be drawn toward more integrated, sociotechnical approaches to engineering.","golden_battery","From Dualism to Integration Investigating Development of Engineering Students' Social and Technical Perceptions",
"1239102","CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: A Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for the ""Smart City""","ECCS","CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS (CPS)","10/1/2012","2/26/2016","Weibo Gong","MA","University of Massachusetts Amherst","Standard Grant","Radhakisan S. Baheti","9/30/2016","$149,029.00 ","","gong@ecs.umass.edu","Research Administration Building","AMHERST","MA","Research Administration Building, AMHERST, MA","10039242","4135450698","ENG","7918","7918","$0.00 ","The project aims at making cities ""smarter"" by engineering processes such as traffic control, efficient parking services, and new urban activities such as recharging electric vehicles. To that end, the research will study the components needed to establish a Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for urban environments and address fundamental problems that involve data collection, resource allocation, real-time decision making, safety, and security. Accordingly, the research is organized along two main directions: (i) Sensing and data acquisition using a new mobile sensor network paradigm designed for urban environments; and (ii) Decision Support for the ""Smart City"" relying on formal verification and certification methods coupled with innovative dynamic optimization techniques used for decision making and resource allocation. The work will bring together and build upon methodological advances in optimization under uncertainty, computer simulation, discrete event and hybrid systems, control and games, system security, and formal verification and safety. Target applications include: a ""Smart Parking"" system where parking spaces are optimally assigned and reserved, and vehicular traffic regulation.<br/><br/>The research has the potential of revolutionizing the way cities are viewed: from a passive living and working environment to a highly dynamic one with new ways to deal with transportation, energy, and safety. Teaming up with stakeholders in the Boston Back Bay neighborhood, the City of Boston, and private industry, the research team expects to establish new collaborative models between universities and urban groups for cutting-edge research embedded in the deployment of an exciting technological, economic, and sociological development.","golden_battery","CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: A Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for the ""Smart City""",
"1643084","Workshop: Using Narrative as Sociolegal Method to Advance Professional Learning and Diversity in the Academy","SES","LAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES","9/15/2016","8/3/2016","Judith Grant","OH","Ohio University","Standard Grant","Scott Barclay","2/28/2018","$35,243.00 ","","grantj1@ohio.edu","108 CUTLER HL","ATHENS","OH","108 CUTLER HL, ATHENS, OH","457012979","7405932857","SBE","1372","7556","$0.00 ","The project seeks to bring together interdisciplinary scholars who focus on law and society in order to explore how professional failures can be integrated into models for professional success. The academic job market, the tenure and promotion process, attempts to move into full-time administration, publication and other realities of academic life yield stories of success that are often passed on in mentoring and professional development workshops. It is relatively rare, however, to confront and share the many more instances of failure that occur in any given career. Failures are typically hidden and can even become part of a destructive identity of shame or secrecy. How might such stories be transformed and integrated into a holistic approach that enables scholars, teachers and administrators to develop in relation to stories that present fuller pictures of professional life? The workshop will integrate law and social science with psychological research to advance theories about how cognitive biases affect the understanding of how to resolve problems. It will broaden participation across several scientific disciplines that are challenged by failures to understand interdisciplinary work, the limited breadth of knowledge and experience of women and men of all races and ethnicities, full- and part-time professors at different career stages, students and practitioners, and parents and other caregivers. The goal is to formulate and disseminate initial conclusions designed to be the basis for an ongoing conversation through traditional and newer platforms (such as online blogs). This discussion will inform many disciplines and industries about the significance of recognizing loss, error and failure as the keys to individual and institutional success. In short, this workshop will seek to understand achievement in the academy by examining loss, error, and failure. <br/><br/>The workshop will explore the idea that the traditional view of achievement is warped by survivorship bias. Professionals often hear advice from those who have succeeded that then offer advice based on those successes. Individuals receiving such advice then tend to attribute outcomes to their own individual efforts rather than to institutions and structures outside their control. The traditional approach is blind to the impact of structures of power such as those that create challenges to underrepresented scholars. However, it also ignores the ways in which narratives that include tales of failure can provide enormous opportunities for structural, institutional and personal change. The workshop will integrate sociolegal scholarship on failures of law with the psychological and sociological literatures on survivorship bias.","crimson_battery","Workshop: Using Narrative as Sociolegal Method to Advance Professional Learning and Diversity in the Academy",
"1615560","CNH-L: Multi-Scale Coupled Natural-Human System Dynamics of Nitrogen in Residential Landscapes","ICER","DYN COUPLED NATURAL-HUMAN","7/15/2016","7/25/2016","Peter Groffman","NY","Research Foundation CUNY - Advanced Science Research Center","Standard Grant","Richard Yuretich","6/30/2019","$1,600,000.00 ","Robert Johnston, J. Morgan Grove, Lawrence Band, Jenny Kao-Kniffin","Peter.Groffman@asrc.cuny.edu","City University of New York","New York","NY","City University of New York, New York, NY","100311246","2124133330","GEO","1691","1691","$0.00 ","Runoff from urban and suburban landscapes has long been known to have a significant effect upon the water quality of streams that receive this discharge. A particular concern in this area is the export of excess nitrate from the use of fertilizers on lawns, which can promote algal or microbial growth in receiving waters. Recent research has indicated that such nitrate export is less than expected, but the reasons for this are unclear. This project will investigate both the natural processes that may regulate the retention and discharge of nitrogen from lawns, as well as the sociological forces that influence the decisions of homeowners concerning the level of lawn management. The results will be incorporated into a model that will identify the locations and episodes of high nitrate in runoff in order to determine how human decisions and natural processes work together to control these concentrations. The conclusions will be applicable to a wide variety of urban and suburban locations across the country and the project will have direct benefit to the management of the environmental health of Chesapeake Bay. <br/><br/>This project models multi-scale, coupled-system dynamics of nitrogen in residential landscapes to determine how biogeochemical, hydrologic, and human behavioral processes interact to control nitrogen exports from residential ecosystems and landscapes. These models will coordinate information from household surveys, existing data, and geographic information system analyses to evaluate interconnected spatial patterns of lawn management and hydrologic sensitivity. The overarching hypothesis is that large-scale social and institutional influences often induce homeowner lawn-care practices contrary to homeowner preferences, but that significant changes in behavior can be motivated via systematic incentives. Field studies on plots varying in land use history (forest versus agriculture), site management (fertilizer input) and age will be established to test hypotheses about the limits of nitrogen sequestration in lawn soil profiles. Geographic, biogeochemical, and social-science data will be analyzed using ecohydrological models to produce spatial analyses of potential hotspots of lawn fertilizer export at the watershed scale. The effect of alternative policies and homeowner practices on land management and nitrogen exports can then be evaluated rigorously.","charcoal_battery","CNH-L: Multi-Scale Coupled Natural-Human System Dynamics of Nitrogen in Residential Landscapes",
"1513378","SEMIPARAMETRIC INFERENCE WITH HIGH-DIMENSIONAL DATA","DMS","STATISTICS","8/1/2015","7/31/2016","Cun-Hui Zhang","NJ","Rutgers University New Brunswick","Continuing grant","Gabor J. Szekely","7/31/2018","$193,611.00 ","","czhang@stat.rutgers.edu","33 Knightsbridge Road","Piscataway","NJ","33 Knightsbridge Road, Piscataway, NJ","88543925","8489320150","MPS","1269","","$0.00 ","Big Data is an area of intense current interest in statistical research and practice due to the rapid development of information technologies and their applications to modern scientific experiments. High-dimensional statistical methods typically provide crucial elements and ideas in engineering solutions for complex Big Data problems. Important fields with an abundance of such problems include bioinformatics, signal processing, neural imaging, communications and social networks, text mining and more. In many such applications, the nominal complexity of the problem, typically measured by the dimension of the data such as genetic components in bioinformatics, brain regions or voxels in neural imaging, or computers and routers in the Internet, is much greater than number of sample points or the information content of the data. The research project will identify and characterize high-dimensional statistical models and problems in which efficient statistical inference are feasible, and will develop new methodologies and algorithms to carry out such efficient statistical inference with high-dimensional data. The proposed research is motivated by and will be directly applicable to real life problems in the aforementioned areas where modern information technologies prosper. Furthermore, the proposed research will have significant educational impact. <br/><br/>A longstanding challenge in high-dimensional data is to identify problems where regular statistical inference is feasible without relying on model selection consistency theory. Consistent model selection allows reduction of the nominal complexity of the problem to a manageable level by identifying all relevant features. However, model selection consistency typically requires uniformly strong signal to separate relevant features from irrelevant ones. Unfortunately, such uniform signal strength assumption is seldom supported by either the data or the underlying science, especially in biological, medical and sociological applications. The PI has proposed a semi-low-dimensional approach of statistical inference and successfully applied it to construct regular p-values and confidence intervals in high-dimensional regression and graphical models. This approach corrects the bias of model selectors just as semiparametric approach corrects the bias of nonparametric estimators. The proposed research will further develop this approach in high-dimensional data analysis and tackle new problems in ways not visible just a few years ago. It will focus on efficient statistical inference with semisupervised data and problems involving many high-dimensional or complex components, including confidence regions and significant tests for composite and multivariate features with high-dimensional data. The project will develop practical methods, efficient algorithms, statistical software, and solid theory directly relevant to common applications involving many high-dimensional or complex components.","salmon_atom","SEMIPARAMETRIC INFERENCE WITH HIGH-DIMENSIONAL DATA",
"1338751","Northeast Ethics Education Partnership","SES","ETHICS EDU FOR SCI & ENG PROG, ICER, Integrative Ecologi Physiology, GRADUATE RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS, PROGRAM EVALUATION","9/15/2013","9/19/2013","Dianne Quigley","RI","Brown University","Standard Grant","Wenda Bauchspies","8/31/2017","$400,000.00 ","","Dianne_Quigley_1@brown.edu","BOX 1929","Providence","RI","BOX 1929, Providence, RI","29129002","4018632777","SBE","7491, 7699, 7657, 7172, 7261","7491","$0.00 ","The Northeast Ethics Education Partnership (NEEP) program, managed by Brown University's Center for Environmental Studies, provides training to graduate students in research ethics, cultural relativity, and community-based approaches. NEEP offers this training through semester-long courses and student/faculty mentoring, as well as through an extensive training database of slide presentations on 30 topics in research ethics, cultural competence and community-based research. Through this award, the project team is expanding NEEP training from its current partnership (Brown University and SUNY-ESF) to include Northeastern University and UMASS-Dartmouth. One goal of this expansion is to conduct short/long courses with their engineering schools, and environmental studies and marine science departments. National dissemination of the NEEP website training materials is being promoted and a research survey to identify research ethical/cultural relativity issues of concern in environmental field research is being conducted with environmental studies researchers, environmental anthropologists/sociologists and engineers. Ethics training is being provided to a diverse community of minority and underserved students and women scientists through the large, racially-diverse populations being served by UMASS and Northeastern University programs.","crimson_battery","Northeast Ethics Education Partnership",
"1444633","EAGER: Physical, Social and Situational Factors as Determents of Public WiFi Users Online Behaviors","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","10/1/2014","8/18/2014","David Maimon","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Ralph Wachter","9/30/2017","$215,002.00 ","Jonathan Katz","dmaimon@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","CSE","8060","7434, 7916, 8225","$0.00 ","The proliferation of public WiFi networks allows users to access the Internet from various public locations. Unfortunately, many public WiFi networks are unencrypted and insecure, posing risks to users' security and privacy, and allowing users to potentially initiate illegal online behaviors. In this interdisciplinary collaboration between social scientists and computer scientists, the PIs build upon sociological, psychological, and criminological models that leverage constructs of community, space, and time, and extend them to study users' perceptions of and behavior on public WiFi networks.<br/><br/>This study gathers data from public WiFi networks across the state of Maryland, and explores whether public WiFi users' online behaviors (both legitimate and illegitimate) and vulnerabilities to cybercrime victimization are shaped by (1) time of day; (2) the speed and level of security of the WiFi connection; (3) the socio-economic characteristics of the neighborhood within which the WiFi network is located; (4) the type of business operating the public WiFi; (5) the physical arrangement and number of individuals present in the location; and (6) the presence of cyber-security awareness cues in the physical environment. This project enables the development of strategies, policies, and best practices for encouraging safe use of public WiFi networks.","lime_battery","EAGER: Physical, Social and Situational Factors as Determents of Public WiFi Users Online Behaviors",
"1632499","Workshop: Social Facets of Data Science","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2016","7/11/2016","Brian Beaton","CA","California Polytechnic State University Foundation","Standard Grant","Wenda Bauchspies","8/31/2017","$24,941.00 ","","brbeaton@calpoly.edu","One Grand Ave","San Luis Obispo","CA","One Grand Ave, San Luis Obispo, CA","934070830","8057562982","SBE","7603","1353, 7556, 7567","$0.00 ","The project will fund a workshop on the social aspects of data science using historical, philosophical, and social scientific methods. It will be held at Cal Poly in the fall of 2016. The workshop will bring together historians, philosophers, anthropologists, and sociologists of data science. They will work together to design a science and technology studies research agenda for data science. Faculty and students engaged in social, historical and ethical studies of data science will be invited to participate. The workshop will contribute to the advancement of knowledge about data science. It will further understanding of social and cultural aspects of data science. It will professionalize and train students. The workshop's publications will increase society?s understanding of data science by discussing the how, what, who, where and why of data science.<br/><br/><br/>The workshop will establish of a multi-disciplinary, multi-generational, and multi-institutional science and technology studies (STS) research agenda on data science. It is designed to be an agenda-setting workshop involving both experts and the general public to produce a research strategy and agenda. The workshop will focus on data science's communication patterns, tools, styles of work, analytical habits, standards, visual strategies, and professional ethics. Presentations will document the emerging social facets of data science research cultures by using historical, philosophical, and social scientific methods. The workshop will offer an opportunity for STS to apply its methods to a new scientific profession and provide STS with a chance to situate itself as a key stakeholder in the professionalization process. The workshop will increase the documentation and understanding of data science beyond the technical profession.","crimson_battery","Workshop: Social Facets of Data Science",
"1632593","A Social and Historical Study of Interdisciplinary Collaborations between Biologists and Philosophers","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY","9/1/2016","7/8/2016","Michael Dietrich","NH","Dartmouth College","Continuing grant","Frederick M Kronz","8/31/2018","$88,695.00 ","J. W. Phillip Honenberger","Michael.Dietrich@Dartmouth.edu","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS","HANOVER","NH","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS, HANOVER, NH","37551404","6036463007","SBE","7603","1353","$0.00 ","General Audience Summary <br/><br/>This project uses historical and social scientific methods to study collaborations between biologists and philosophers of biology during a particularly productive period during the second half of the twentieth century. The investigator will use quantitative analyses, archival research, and oral history interviews to track and describe the behavior of hundreds of actors. The study will make a significant contribution to the history of biological science, as well as to the understanding of scientific collaboration, disciplinarity, and interdisciplinarity. It provide a novel framework for addressing such questions as the division of epistemic labor and authority between humanities and natural science disciplines, as well as questions about the motives, institutional supports, mechanics, effects, and appraisal of interdisciplinary research. Outcomes include two publically accessible archives: an electronic archive of raw and processed data and select archival materials, to be stored at an online repository at Arizona State University, and an archive of oral history interviews with some of the most influential biologists and philosophers of biology of the twentieth century, to be stored at the American Philosophical Society. In addition, the project will produce a series of papers in academic journals that will contribute to ongoing and widespread discussions and policy evaluations of interdisciplinarity. Finally, it will produce a book written for a broad audience showing how researchers in the humanities have effectively collaborated with those in the exact sciences with mutually beneficial results that impact both fields.<br/><br/>Technical Summary <br/><br/>From the 1950s to the present day, professional biologists and professional philosophers have often worked together to address questions about the anthropological and sociological reach of biological models, the relation of evolutionary and organismic explanations and perspectives to molecular and physical ones, and the interpretation of such contested concepts as ""species,"" ""gene,"" ""fitness,"" ""race,"" ""biological function,"" and ""ecological diversity."" These collaborations helped shape the field today known as ""philosophy of biology."" The project promises to shed new light on the history of both biology and the philosophy of biology in the late twentieth-century. It also makes a contribution to contemporary research on interdisciplinary collaborations. Biological science has raised and confronted fundamental questions throughout its modern history. By providing a detailed historically and theoretically informed study of how researchers from the prima facie quite different disciplinary backgrounds of biology and philosophy addressed these questions during the period in question, both separately and in dialogue and collaboration, the project helps us to see biology and its implications for intellectual life and culture in a new way.","crimson_atom","A Social and Historical Study of Interdisciplinary Collaborations between Biologists and Philosophers",
"1302662","RI: AF: Medium: Learning and Matrix Reconstruction with the Max-Norm and Related Factorization Norms","IIS","ROBUST INTELLIGENCE, NUM, SYMBOL, & ALGEBRA COMPUT","6/1/2013","9/16/2015","Nathan Srebro","IL","Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago","Continuing grant","Hector Munoz-Avila","5/31/2017","$915,986.00 ","Yury Makarychev","nati@ttic.edu","6045 S. Kenwood Avenue","Chicago","IL","6045 S. Kenwood Avenue, Chicago, IL","606372902","7738340409","CSE","7495, 7933","7495, 7924, 7933, 9251","$0.00 ","Matrix learning is fundamental in many learning problems. These include problems that can be directly formulated as learning some unknown matrix, as well as a broader class of learning problems involving a matrix of parameters. The most direct matrix learning problem is matrix completion, completing unseen entries in a partially observed matrix. Matrix completion has recently received much attention both in practice in collaborative filtering (notably through the Netflix challenge), and theoretical analysis as an extension to compressed sensing. Matrix learning has also been used for clustering, transfer and multi-task learning, and similarity learning.<br/><br/>The dominant approach to matrix learning in recent years, especially in the context of matrix completion, has used the matrix trace norm (developed in part by the PI on this award). Indeed, trace norm-based methods enjoy much success in a variety of applications. This project develops and studies alternative matrix norms to the trace-norm, most importantly the promising max-norm.<br/><br/>Learning with the max-norm was initially presented in 2004 (along with the trace norm), but has not received the same attention, despite many theoretical and empirical advantages. This project identifies domains where the max-norm and related norms can be beneficial, develops computational methods for using these norms, and promotes the adoption of these norms. A central aim is to develop optimization methods for max-norm regularized problems that are as efficient as the corresponding methods for trace-norm regularized problems, such as singular value thresholding and LR-type methods. Beyond matrix completion, the project applies the max-norm both to problems where the trace-norm has been previously applied, and in novel settings. Novel applications include clustering, binary hashing, crowdsourcing, modeling rankings by a population, and similarity learning.<br/><br/>Research under this project links the machine learning and theory-of-computation research communities (where SDP relaxations essentially corresponding to the max-norm have played a significant role in recent years). The project forms bridges between the communities, enabled in part by cross-disciplinary tutorials. Through collaboration with sociologists the PIs reach out to the social sciences, and increase the broad impact of the work by presenting it in an approachable and useable way to this audience.","lime_atom","RI: AF: Medium: Learning and Matrix Reconstruction with the Max-Norm and Related Factorization Norms",
"1301765","Delaware EPSCoR: Meeting Delaware's 21st Century Water and Energy Challenges through Research, Education, and Innovation","OIA","RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROV","6/1/2013","8/27/2015","Donald Sparks","DE","University of Delaware","Cooperative Agreement","Kennan, Sean C.","5/31/2018","$12,000,000.00 ","John Rabolt, Stephanie Smith, Kent Messer, Virginia Balke, Venugopal Kalavacharla, Karl Steiner","dlsparks@udel.edu","210 Hullihen Hall","Newark","DE","210 Hullihen Hall, Newark, DE","197162553","3028312136","O/D","7217","9150","$0.00 ","As a coastal state, Delaware is facing the prospect of sea-level rise and its consequences for natural and built landscapes ranging from tidal wetlands to agricultural land to densely populated and polluted urban areas. Accordingly, this project addresses water and energy sustainability issues through four interdisciplinary research themes that integrate engineering and the social and natural sciences: the effect of sea-level rise on contaminant mobility and cycling; coupled land use and climate change impacts on water and natural systems; development and deployment of environmental sensors that provide data for the other themes and assist in environmental monitoring and forecasting systems; and innovations in environmentally sound renewable energy sources.<br/><br/>The University of Delaware (UD), Delaware State University, Wesley College, and Delaware Technical Community College will collaboratively address these themes using innovative research approaches and educational programs. The project includes public outreach activities and partnerships with private industry and government.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit<br/><br/>The proposed research is interdisciplinary with a focus on factors affecting water quality in a coastal zone subject to land use, demographic, and climate changes. Novel approaches will be used to investigate the fate of soil-bound contaminants inundated by sea-level rise, new environmental sensor technologies will be developed, and economic, sociological, ethical, and policy research will be integrated within each of the research themes. The project will address renewable energy including wind and biofuels. Novel means of securing the economic and societal benefits of the research through intellectual property development, education, and outreach, in the context of workforce development, are proposed. A seed grant program will capitalize on new opportunities and expand the network of investigators.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts<br/><br/>Improved understanding of the changes likely to occur in coastal areas and the range of possible human responses to those changes will have direct and near-term application in the state of Delaware, as well as widespread applicability around the nation and the globe. The research is planned so that results will inform public policy and decision making through collaboration and outreach. Student participants will be trained in interdisciplinary research approaches that integrate the natural and social sciences, as well as bridge the academic, public, and private sectors. New degree programs, internships with public and private partners, outreach visits, training in communication and intellectual property, and initiatives to integrate education and research combine to provide innovative opportunities for training the next generation of scientists and engineers.","aquamarine_car","Delaware EPSCoR: Meeting Delaware's 21st Century Water and Energy Challenges through Research, Education, and Innovation",
"1443082","EAGER: Development of a Novel Online Visual Survey Data Analysis Tool and Assessment of its Capabilities to Enhance Learning of Quantitative Research Methods","ACI","EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE","6/15/2014","6/11/2014","Ilya Zaslavsky","CA","University of California-San Diego","Standard Grant","Sushil Prasad","5/31/2017","$299,999.00 ","Kevin Lewis, Akos Rona-tas","zaslavsk@sdsc.edu","Office of Contract & Grant Admin","La Jolla","CA","Office of Contract & Grant Admin, La Jolla, CA","920930934","8585344896","CSE","7361","7916, 7231, 7361","$0.00 ","As public opinion and other surveys become a ubiquitous tool in many contexts and disciplinary domains, the need for online survey analysis systems that can be used by non-professionals to quickly and accurately analyze patterns of responses in different subsets of respondents is also increasing. The system developed by the project will vastly expand opportunities for survey data access and online data sharing and exploration in several domains that rely on questionnaire data collection. The ability to annotate patterns of responses and share the annotations with others leads to a valuable new quality in survey analysis, making it a collaborative and interactive online experience. Important benefits are expected in education and learning. Online learning of research methods is often hampered by a deep-seated fear of quantitative approaches reported by many social science majors. The ability to relate inferential results with easy to use visual interactive exploration of social datasets will help students test distributional assumptions, compute models for graphically selected groups of respondents, and find and explain outliers. This combination of features has the potential to transform how survey data are shared and analyzed online, and increase the value of research investment in sociological and related studies by promoting reuse of available data. <br/>This project's goal is to build an online tool for exploratory survey data analysis, which can be used by researchers and students to examine, analyze, share, and publish public opinion and other questionnaire surveys. The online tool offers a new visual metaphor for analyzing surveys and intuitively uncovering patterns of relationships, making survey data easy to share, appealing to explore, and simple to navigate from any subsets of respondents to individual cases. The project leverages technical approaches from image analytics, faceted search, and online map navigation, combining them into a novel survey authoring and online publication system which allows users to juxtapose interactive exploration with common inferential statistics, and share and annotate analytical results. The system is evaluated as a learning tool in several research method classes for both graduate and undergraduate students. In addition, it is field tested in a number of surveys conducted by the project and the advisory team members. A key novel feature of the survey analysis system is its efficient and intuitive exploratory data analysis interface accessible by a wide group of expert and non-expert users. Another key novel feature is its support of standards-based data sharing, collaboration, and communication among social survey analysts and students. The project includes development of architecture and information models for a cyberlearning-focused survey analysis system; integration of inferential statistics and exploratory approaches in a single easy to use visual analytical interface; and exploration of survey data sharing, collaborative online analysis and annotations.","lime_battery","EAGER: Development of a Novel Online Visual Survey Data Analysis Tool and Assessment of its Capabilities to Enhance Learning of Quantitative Research Methods",
"1231294","RCN-SEES: Building a Research Network for Promoting Arctic Urban Sustainability in Russia","PLR","Research Coordination Networks, SPECIAL PROJECTS - CCF","8/15/2012","8/1/2012","Robert Orttung","DC","George Washington University","Standard Grant","Anna Kerttula de Echave","7/31/2017","$561,377.00 ","Marlene Laruelle, Dmitry Streletskiy, Nikolay Shiklomanov","rorttung@gmail.com","2121 Eye Street NW","Washington","DC","2121 Eye Street NW, Washington, DC","200522000","2029946255","GEO","1664, 2878","1079, 8020, 8060","$0.00 ","This award will support a Research Coordination Network aimed at creating models for Arctic urban sustainability. It is a multi-disciplinary, international effort examining the interconnections among resource development, climate change, and evolving demographic patterns in an effort to provide advice to U.S., Russian, and other policy-makers on how to develop Arctic oil and natural gas deposits and their related infrastructure in a way that produces minimal impact on the environment. The five-year project will convene an annual meeting of scientists working on these issues in Washington and Russia (alternating yearly) in order to facilitate collaboration across disciplines and institutes and to spur better communication between the researchers and policy-making community. Between meetings, the network will engage its participants through webinars hosted at George Washington University, place-based exercises to develop recommendations for specific cities, and coordinating on-going research projects. Russia is the central focus of this project because its territory holds most of the Arctic's energy resources and is the site of the most extensive urban development in the high north. How Russia develops its Arctic energy resources and how its northern cities evolve over the next several decades will have a major impact on the environmental health of the entire Arctic region. The output of the project will be policy advice on how to improve Arctic sustainability in the crucial urban areas associated with energy resource development.<br/><br/>The project bridges disciplinary and national divides by bringing together geographers, political scientists, and sociologists to study the interaction of human and natural systems in the Arctic. Project personnel include researchers with a wide range of expertise, including knowledge of energy resource development; migration and employment patterns in Eurasia; and scientific measurement of permafrost thickness throughout Arctic regions. The project will provide additional enrichment for a) the graduate students and early career scholars who are involved in the networking activities, b) residents of Arctic urban developments who will receive area-specific advice on improving sustainability, c) and policy-makers who benefit from input on how infrastructure sites, resource exploitation, and social urban environments can be made more robust in light of forthcoming climate and socio-economic changes. Additionally, the project will serve underrepresented groups by assessing urban impacts on the indigenous peoples of the Arctic and examining the role that foreign laborers play in Arctic infrastructure development.","charcoal_battery","RCN-SEES: Building a Research Network for Promoting Arctic Urban Sustainability in Russia",
"1447700","BIGDATA: F: DKA: Scalable, Private Algorithms for Continual Data Analysis","IIS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace, Big Data Science &Engineering","9/1/2014","8/26/2014","Adam Smith","PA","Pennsylvania State Univ University Park","Standard Grant","Sylvia J. Spengler","8/31/2018","$500,000.00 ","Sofya Raskhodnikova","asmith@cse.psu.edu","110 Technology Center Building","UNIVERSITY PARK","PA","110 Technology Center Building, UNIVERSITY PARK, PA","168027000","8148651372","CSE","8060, 8083","7433, 7434, 8083","$0.00 ","For the very same reasons that big data is transforming modern life, it also presents a profound threat to privacy and the control of personal information. A major challenge associated with big data is to enable statistical analysis of complex data sets, without compromising the privacy of the individuals whose data they contain. Addressing this challenge is both necessary, since access to many data sources is restricted due to privacy concerns, and difficult, as numerous attacks on supposedly anonymized data demonstrate. This project will investigate the design and limitations of algorithms for the private, continual analysis of time-varying data sets. That is, it will study algorithms that release information about a data set as it is collected (say, in the form of a data stream from the web, or a long-term sociological study). The research will advance the state of the art in the private analysis of ""big"" -- massive, complex, time-varying -- data. If successful, the project will provide enabling technologies that facilitate research in areas where access to sensitive data is limited by confidentiality concerns.<br/><br/>The project will focus on the design of algorithms that satisfy differential privacy -- a rigorous notion of privacy that is widely studied in computer science and related fields. The privacy implications of sequential releases are still poorly understood, and relatively few of the algorithms developed in the extensive recent literature on private data analysis allow for sequential releases with high accuracy. The two major thrusts of the project are (1) algorithms for the ""continual release"" model, and (2) algorithms for the ""local"" model, which offers even stronger privacy guarantees. The work will provide novel algorithmic design techniques and understanding of complexity-theoretic limitations of algorithms for these models. The research will entail advances in related areas such as learning theory, statistical inference and streaming algorithms. The project will also include educational, outreach and work-force training activities designed to broaden the impact of the research.<br/><br/>For further information see the project web site at: http://www.cse.psu.edu/~asmith/projects/continual/","lime_battery","BIGDATA: F: DKA: Scalable, Private Algorithms for Continual Data Analysis",
"1408345","CHS: Medium: Towards Transparency of Personalization on the Web","IIS","Cyber-Human Systems (CHS)","7/15/2014","4/20/2015","Christopher Wilson","MA","Northeastern University","Standard Grant","William Bainbridge","6/30/2018","$743,094.00 ","David Lazer, Alan Mislove","c.wilson@neu.edu","360 HUNTINGTON AVE","BOSTON","MA","360 HUNTINGTON AVE, BOSTON, MA","21155005","6173732508","CSE","7367","7367, 7924, 9251","$0.00 ","This project will develop new research methods to map and quantify the ways in which online search engines, social networks and e-commerce sites use sophisticated algorithms to tailor content to each individual user. This ""personalization"" may often be of value for the user, but it also has the potential to distort search results and manipulate the perceptions and behavior of the user. Given the popularity of personalization across a variety of Web-based services, this research has the potential for extremely broad impact. Being able to quantify the extent to which Web-based services are personalized will lead to greater transparency for users, and the development of tools to identify personalized content will allow users to access information that may be hard to access today.<br/><br/>Personalization is now a ubiquitous feature on many Web-based services. In many cases, personalization provides advantages for users, because personalization algorithms are likely to return results that are relevant to the user. At the same time, the increasing levels of personalization in Web search and other systems are leading to growing concerns over the Filter Bubble effect, where users are only given results that the personalization algorithm thinks they want, while other important information remains inaccessible. From a computer science perspective, personalization is simply a tool that is applied to information retrieval and ranking problems. However, sociologists, philosophers, and political scientists argue that personalization can result in inadvertent censorship and ""echo chambers."" Similarly, economists warn that unscrupulous companies can leverage personalization to steer users towards higher-priced products, or even implement price discrimination, charging different users different prices for the same item. As the pervasiveness of personalization on the Web grows, it is clear that techniques must be developed to understand and quantify personalization across a variety of Web services.<br/><br/>This research has four primary thrusts: (1) To develop methodologies to measure personalization of mobile content. The increasing popularity of browsing the Web from mobile devices presents new challenges, as these devices have access to sensitive content like the user's geolocation and contacts. (2) To develop systems and techniques for accurately measuring the prevalence of several personalization trends on a large number of e-commerce sites. Recent anecdotal evidence has shown instances of problematic sales tactics, including price steering and price discrimination. (3) To develop techniques to identify and quantify personalized political content. (4) To measure the extent to which financial and health information is personalized based on location and socio-economic status. All four of these thrusts will develop new research methodologies that may prove effective in other areas of research as well.","lime_battery","CHS: Medium: Towards Transparency of Personalization on the Web",
"1463808","Exploring Non-Normative Forms of Capital, Wealth and Knowledge Used by Engineering Students","EEC","ENGINEERING EDUCATION","6/15/2015","5/4/2016","Julie Martin","SC","Clemson University","Standard Grant","Elliot Douglas","5/31/2017","$143,956.00 ","","jtrenor@clemson.edu","230 Kappa Street","CLEMSON","SC","230 Kappa Street, CLEMSON, SC","296340001","8646562424","ENG","1340","110E, 116E, 1340, 9150, 9178, 9251","$0.00 ","Uncovering the Assets that Diverse Students Bring to Engineering Higher Education<br/><br/>The culture of today's engineering higher education has been influenced by its historical and sociological roots as a dominantly male, middle-to-upper class profession. As a result, there is often the assumption that there is a single ""normal"" student experience. However, students from underrepresented or socially marginalized groups often have educational experiences that that are distinct from the mainstream engineering culture. Generally speaking, engineering curricula and individual courses are designed and often taught in traditional ways that do not take into account the many assets that diverse students bring to their engineering studies. The current system of education does not readily recognize and leverage these experiences in producing new ways of teaching and learning engineering or developing different ways of thinking about how engineers create processes and products for today's diverse society. This project contributes to diversifying the field of engineering by illuminating the distinct experiences of students from socially marginalized groups. The project's goal is to help educators recognize and value a variety of distinct experiences, making the field of engineering more inclusive.<br/><br/>The objective of this project is to answer the research question: ""In the varying experiences of students who are underrepresented and/or socially marginalized, what forms of capital, wealth, and knowledge are identified as significant?"" Using a testimonial interview method, the researchers qualitatively investigate recent engineering graduates' experiences of ""unearned advantages"" and ""unearned disadvantages,"" and the relationship of these unearned traits to engineering higher education. The qualitative research approach allows the collection of rich descriptions of participants' experiences to discover if/how differences from the engineering cultural norm may result in models of success that help students persist and succeed. Phenomenographic data analysis and asset-based theoretical frameworks including Community Cultural Wealth (CCW) and Funds of Knowledge (FoK) are used to discover variations in the way that participants experience their engineering education. Through leveraging the expertise of an advisory panel, the project develops the capacity and research infrastructure to develop scaleable mechanisms that can facilitate validation of ""non-traditional"" or ""unexpected"" forms of wealth among engineering educators.","golden_battery","Exploring Non-Normative Forms of Capital, Wealth and Knowledge Used by Engineering Students",
"1607169","Data Quality for Compact Binary Signals in the Era of Gravitational Wave Discovery","PHY","LIGO RESEARCH SUPPORT","8/1/2016","6/21/2016","Peter Saulson","NY","Syracuse University","Continuing grant","Pedro Marronetti","7/31/2019","$250,000.00 ","","saulson@physics.syr.edu","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROGRAMS","SYRACUSE","NY","OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROGRAMS, SYRACUSE, NY","132441200","3154432807","MPS","1252","7569","$0.00 ","The Syracuse group will support the search for gravitational waves by the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO), with special emphasis on the search for signals from binary star systems consisting of black holes and/or neutron stars. The group's research will be aimed at developing better ways to recognize brief intervals of time when LIGO's data is of poor quality or when one of the LIGO interferometers generates a spurious signal. This work will improve the sensitivity of searches for new signals by increasing our confidence that weak signals are real astronomical events, not instrumental artifacts. The group will continue to train students and postdocs who will be tomorrow's leading scientists. The P.I. will also support broader understanding in the community by completing the editing of a book on the technology of gravitational wave interferometers, and by consulting with sociologist Prof. Harry Collins as he completes his study of the history of gravitational wave detection and hands off the project to a new generation of scholars.<br/><br/> In support of LIGO's search for signals from compact binary systems, the group will develop a new technique for distinguishing between genuine black hole binary signals and instrumental transients that mimic signals, improving the sensitivity and reliability of the search. They will improve on tools for associating transients in auxiliary data channels with spurious binary signals in the main gravitational wave channel. The group will also build tools for exploring the LIGO data via audio methods, and will compile a library of standard sound files for comparison with interesting events. They will develop new tools for examining data quality in close to real time, in support of the effort to link gravitational wave signals with electromagnetic observations. By learning better ways to distinguish between genuine gravitational wave signals and instrumental artifacts, the Syracuse group will improve the sensitivity of LIGO's searches and increase the believability of its results. This research will also enable instrument specialists to focus more clearly on instrumental problems that are detrimental to searches for signals, leading to further improved performance.","salmon_atom","Data Quality for Compact Binary Signals in the Era of Gravitational Wave Discovery",
"1426844","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed","EAR","Global Systems Science, SEES Coastal","9/15/2014","4/27/2016","Sujay Kaushal","MD","University of Maryland College Park","Standard Grant","Judith Ellen Skog","8/31/2017","$393,547.00 ","","skaushal@umd.edu","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive","COLLEGE PARK","MD","3112 LEE BLDG 7809 Regents Drive, COLLEGE PARK, MD","207425141","3014056269","GEO","7978, 8088","","$0.00 ","Excess nitrogen associated with urbanization is a critical threat to the sustainability of coastal systems across the globe. More than half of the estuaries in the United States show some level of impairment due to excess nitrogen. Concerns about nitrogen have intensified with the development of plans to achieve nutrient reductions required for compliance with new regulations. This project will resolve critical uncertainties related to the effects of urban stream and watershed restoration efforts on nitrogen dynamics. Human social and economic factors that affect the implementation of these efforts will also be addressed. The combined environmental, social and economic insights from this project have the potential to transform assessments and management of urban coastal sustainability across the globe. The research will build on ongoing relationships with environmental managers in Baltimore City and County in the areas of water quality and sustainability. Researchers will engage representatives from city, county and state government agencies; non-governmental organizations such as the Parks & People Foundation and Blue Water Baltimore; and local community groups through face-to-face interviews, webinars, and research summaries. The research team will also initiate a citizen science effort where residents collect data on pests and garbage associated with restoration efforts, and will determine whether participation as a citizen scientist increases knowledge of and enthusiasm for restoration practices. This effort will directly address concerns that many Baltimore residents have expressed about crime, pest production, and garbage associated with restoration activities. Additional broader impacts include training graduate and undergraduate students in sustainability science. This project is supported as part of the National Science Foundation's Coastal Science, Engineering, and Education for Sustainability program - Coastal SEES.<br/><br/>This project will address the complex interactions between biophysical and social science factors that underlie the effects of urbanization on coastal sustainability. Building on the coupled socio-ecological research of the National Science Foundation funded Baltimore urban Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) project, the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, the work will address the following questions: How efficient are stream restoration and installation of green infrastructure in reducing nitrogen delivery to the coast? Are these effects easily overwhelmed by degradation of fundamental sanitary infrastructure? Do coastal residents of different socio-economic status and distance to the coast know and care about the ecological integrity of receiving waters? Can citizen science efforts increase resident knowledge and interest in coastal water quality? A team of ecologists, engineers, geographers, sociologists and economists will evaluate the nitrogen benefits and public support for a series of old and new stream restoration projects in the Baltimore area and determine if the nitrogen benefits of these restorations and other green infrastructure interventions are significant and visible in watershed-scale nitrogen mass balances. The group will assess the willingness of stakeholders to adopt these interventions in neighborhoods varying in socio-economic status and distance to the coast and carry out economic and policy analyses of stream and watershed restoration efforts. This information will be used to identify areas within the urban to exurban complex where social and biophysical factors converge to create opportunities for restoration and revitalization.","charcoal_battery","Coastal SEES Collaborative Research: Effects of restoration and redevelopment on nitrogen dynamics in an urban coastal watershed",
"1560776","Evolution of a Post-Disaster Coping Network","BCS","CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY","3/15/2016","6/23/2016","Eric Jones","TX","University of Texas Health Science Center Houston","Standard Grant","Deborah Winslow","8/31/2017","$120,537.00 ","Arthur Murphy","Eric.C.Jones@uth.tmc.edu","7000 FANNIN ST","HOUSTON","TX","7000 FANNIN ST, HOUSTON, TX","770305400","7135003999","SBE","1390","042E, 1390, 9178, 9179, 9251, SMET","$0.00 ","This study, by anthropologists Dr. Eric C. Jones (University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston) and Dr. Arthur D. Murphy (University of North Carolina, Greensboro), investigates the effects of community networks on individual and family responses to mass trauma and extreme events. Mass trauma events, such as public venue shootings and bombings, linger in people's lives long after the events themselves. They also tie together former strangers and do so in ways that significantly affect the recovery process for both individuals and communities. The goal of the research is to understand how different networked groups develop, how they change over time, and how those changes affect and are affected by their reaction to the events and their aftermath. Because this is a dynamic process that begins right after an event takes place and unfolds over years, Jones and Murphy have taken a longitudinal approach: a sustained, focused, long-term investigation of how social groups emerge, coalesce, and divide, as well as how they affect and are affected by their contexts and memberships, during the recovery process. Their focal event is a 2009 fire that broke out in a Hermasillo, Mexico, day care center and killed 49 young children while also injuring many more. This award supports a third round of data collection and analysis.<br/><br/>The researchers will map out the formal named groups of local residents and affected families and the informal sub-networks (calculated with hierarchical clustering) among parents and caretakers. They also will conduct in-depth interviews and participant observation (such as attending marches, meetings, commemorations) to understand how the different subgroups generate diverse meanings and pathways to recovery over time. The network data will be analyzed with formal network modeling measures of embeddedness and bridging. The interview data will be coded for analysis with text analysis software. Preliminary findings suggest that while participation in a network of people who shared and understood their experience sometimes afforded a support advantage, this was not always true. Jones and Murphy will explore the sources of disagreement and conflict, how these affect recovery, and what produces exceptions where these conflicts and individual problems like guilt, depression, fear and helplessness are overcome. This project builds new links between the fields of community psychology and anthropology in disaster and trauma studies. It also brings insights on impact and recovery to a broader audience of political scientists interested in extreme events and governance, geographers who study hazards and vulnerability, and sociologists concentrating on disasters and social organization. Better knowledge of social aspects of coping in mass trauma events is important for counselors, as well as public officials and policy makers who must help those who struggle to find meaning and justice post-trauma.","crimson_battery","Evolution of a Post-Disaster Coping Network",
"1541423","Scholars Award: Science in Transformation: Shifting Disciplinary Boundaries and Community-Engaged Scientists","SES","SCIENCE, TECH & SOCIETY, STAR Metrics","9/1/2014","4/24/2015","Amy Lesen","LA","Tulane University","Continuing grant","Frederick M Kronz","8/31/2017","$134,453.00 ","","alesen@tulane.edu","6823 ST CHARLES AVENUE","NEW ORLEANS","LA","6823 ST CHARLES AVENUE, NEW ORLEANS, LA","701185698","5048654000","SBE","7603, 8022","0000, 7915, 9150, OTHR, 7567","$0.00 ","Overview<br/><br/>The Principal Investigator (PI) will address questions that have arisen as a result of a shift by the scientific community towards engaging with complex problems that span two or more distinct realm; in this case, the issue is climate change, which spans environmental and social realms. Key questions to be addressed concern the challenges faced by scientists engaged in work on this problem, and the character of the associated shift in the norms within the scientific community. The PI will address these questions by focusing on several carefully chosen case studies of scientists and organizations at the leading edge of these transformations. The PI will use multiple methods in doing so, including in-depth, semi-structured oral history interviews with scientists, and archival research into the development of their organizations and research projects. The results of this project will be an oral history website and a monograph of case studies to document this transformative period in science.<br/><br/>Intellectual Merit<br/><br/>The proposed work will contribute to the growing body of research into science and civic engagement by documenting stories of scientists themselves. In investigating how current scientific issues (such as climate change) are engendering a shift in science practice, this project will also increase our understanding of how the scientific problems of an age influence the evolution of scientific social and institutional norms, and how (in turn) those norms affect the way scientific problems are studied. The information and products gained from this research will be instructive to other scientists, to sociologists of science and to STS scholars.<br/><br/>Broader Impacts :<br/><br/>This project will serve to inform policy at academic institutions and to guide efforts to train a new generation of scientists who plan to engage in work that addresses the scientific and social complexities of climate change. Additionally, the proposed work will enhance our understanding of how to facilitate communication between scientists, policy makers, community members and other stakeholders, which could in turn improve research and policy effectiveness. The site of this work is a historically black college liberal arts college in New Orleans, and undergraduates are included in the research plan as research assistants, meaning that this project will contribute to the training of underrepresented minority students in science and social science research and encourage underrepresented minority students to pursue graduate training in those fields. The oral history website, housed at the work site, will serve to provide a deeper understanding to the New Orleans community, particularly communities of color, about the science of climate change and about science in general.","crimson_atom","Scholars Award: Science in Transformation: Shifting Disciplinary Boundaries and Community-Engaged Scientists",
"1537768","EAGER: Leveling the Digital Playing Field for the Job Seeker","CNS","Secure &Trustworthy Cyberspace","9/1/2015","8/31/2015","Raquel Hill","IN","Indiana University","Standard Grant","Heng Xu","8/31/2017","$289,786.00 ","Ilana Gershon","ralhill@indiana.edu","509 E 3RD ST","Bloomington","IN","509 E 3RD ST, Bloomington, IN","474013654","8128550516","CSE","8060","7434, 7916, 8225, 9102","$0.00 ","This project aims to assess how online data impacts the hiring process. In an ideal situation, one might imagine that employers hire the most skilled applicant, but sociological research indicates that this may not be the case. A job applicant's similarity to the interviewer in class background and class-based leisure activities often matters as much or more to employers than a job applicant's skills or work experience. The ability of a recruiter or employer to learn such information from seemingly unrelated data has led researchers to express concerns about privacy, job relevance, and the potential for discrimination. This is the first stage in a larger project that aims to illuminate how online information impacts the ability of job seekers to find employment in post-recession United States. The project creates a framework for identifying systematic patterns of discrimination in regionally specific job markets, and also provide a fuller picture of precisely when in the hiring process are certain forms of discrimination likely to take place (upon submission of resume, at interview stage, and so on). In addition, the collected data will enable job seekers to discover how online information affects their employability, and aid the development of strategies to align online data and professional profiles. <br/><br/>The researchers will develop a novel mixed-methods framework to better understand the hiring process and study hiring discrimination by combining ethnographic studies of employers and companies that aggregate applicant profiles; surveys of applicants' background, skillset, and job-seeking history; online profile aggregation; and traditional data mining techniques. This project will contribute to the understanding of how employment works in the United States, and the types of online information that may limit employability. The problem will be addressed across populations that have varying demographic profiles and skill sets, and whose primary industries vary greatly. The proposed analysis will capture regionally specific hiring practices and reveal insights into the kinds of demographic indicators that work for or against job seekers in different regions.","lime_battery","EAGER: Leveling the Digital Playing Field for the Job Seeker",
"1306747","AGEP-T-Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate","HRD","OFFICE OF MULTIDISCIPLINARY AC, AGEP, DMR SHORT TERM SUPPORT, PROJECTS, WORKFORCE IN THE MATHEMAT SCI, Integrative Activities in Phys","9/15/2013","9/11/2013","Mark Richards","CA","University of California-Berkeley","Standard Grant","Mark H. Leddy","2/28/2017","$1,316,986.00 ","","Mark_Richards@berkeley.edu","Sponsored Projects Office","BERKELEY","CA","Sponsored Projects Office, BERKELEY, CA","947045940","5106428109","EHR","1253, 1515, 1712, 1978, 7335, 9134","1253, 1515, 1712, 1978, 7335, 9134","$0.00 ","The California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate was created in response to the NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) program solicitation (NSF 12-554) for the AGEP-Transformation (AGEP-T) track. The AGEP-T track targets strategic alliances of institutions and organizations to develop, implement, and study innovative evidence-based models and standards for STEM graduate education, postdoctoral training, and academic STEM career preparation that eliminate or mitigate negative factors and promote positive practices for URMs.<br/><br/>The California AGEP is a collaboration between four doctoral degree granting institutions in California, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of California at Los Angeles, Stanford University, and California Institute of Technology. The vision of the California AGEP is to establish an alliance to ensure that underrepresented minority (URM) PhDs from alliance institutions, in much larger numbers, aspire to and populate the ranks of the postdoctoral population, the faculty at competitive research and teaching institutions, the federally funded national laboratories, and scientific think tanks. The California Alliance focuses on increasing diversity in the academic fields with the greatest URMs: the mathematical, physical, and computer sciences; and engineering (MPCS&E).<br/><br/>The goal of the California AGEP is to significantly increase the movement of URM students into the most competitive research and teaching careers in the MPCS&E fields to systematically address ethnic underrepresentation in the particular STEM fields and at the institutions where it is most severe and remains seemingly intractable nationally. The California Alliance defines URMs as African Americans, Chicanos, Latinos, Native Alaskans, Native Pacific Islanders, and American Indians. CA-AGEP participants are US citizens who are enrolled as doctoral students, who are URMs, and who are in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period, including those who graduate during the award period, and URM postdoctoral fellows who are US citizens in the MPCS&E fields at the alliance institutions during the award period.<br/><br/>The objectives of the California AGEP include:<br/>Objective 1. Create an unprecedented community of practice across the four institutions that include graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, faculty, and key administrators.<br/>Objective 2. Engage faculty as mentors to advance URM students' careers across these four institutions.<br/>Objective 3. Develop, implement, evaluate and set new standards for professional development.<br/>Objective 4. Promote URM PhD advancement to faculty and postdoctoral ranks in STEM through new partnerships and using new tools, and in partnership with federally funded national laboratories.<br/>Objective 5. Conduct research that leverages the architecture of the California Alliance to identify which of the specific programs and initiatives that are in effect in research universities working to increase diversity are most impactful in ensuring URM students' success and professional ascension in the MPCS&E fields, and more generally within STEM.<br/><br/>The activities that contribute to the model for this alliance are many and quite varied; they include: <br/>Objective 1: Hold an annual retreat, with both discipline-specific and cohort-specific sessions. Introduce students, postdocs and faculty to each other using in-person sessions, web site and new media. Create recruitment opportunity for faculty, departments, and national labs.<br/>Objective 2: The Internal Steering Committee (ISC) and the Implementation Team (IT) make faculty aware of California AGEP (CA-AGEP). Invite and stimulate alliance-wide faculty advisement and mentoring of CA-AGEP students & postdocs. Include substantial presence of faculty at the annual retreat. Engage faculty in development of professional development sessions. Engage faculty in recording and streaming of professional development activities on the campuses.<br/>Objective 3: Develop and institute a complete collection of professional development sessions & provide cross-alliance access to all CA-AGEP students. <br/>Objective 4: Develop and market new joint California Alliance postdocs. Offer postdoc opportunities to California Alliance students. Encourage departments to create further postdoc opportunities where strong applicant pool warrants this. Link all 4 CA-AGEP universities to the University of California President?s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP) for professional development and networking in an extended national postdoc community. Create database of CA-AGEP scholars and access at annual retreat to graduating PhDs for direct recruitment by CA-AGEP and other university department representatives and national labs.<br/>Objective 5: Conduct annual surveys of students with measures related to well-being, identification with the university, attitudes, experiences, perceptions, and performance. Conduct semi-structured interviews with students, postdocs and faculty. Collect and analyze mentor reports. Use of dismantling strategy in research<br/><br/>The CA-AGEP includes a social science research study that employs a dismantling treatment strategy to link exposure and utilization of the various initiatives and services offered to students through the CA-AGEP with individual and group outcomes. Individual student level attitudinal assessments draw primarily from the social-psychological and educational literature on factors that relate to achievement, both population-general (e.g., self-esteem) as well as measures of variables that specifically tap into URM students' experiences (e.g., experiences relating to racism). Institutional assessments focus on the qualities of the institutional programs and structures, and these measures tap into sociological-level variables.","mauve_battery","AGEP-T-Collaborative Research: California Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate",
"1430799","Affect contagion: Exploring the catalytic effects of status","BCS","SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY","7/1/2014","6/28/2014","Wendy Mendes","CA","University of California-San Francisco","Standard Grant","Tamera Schneider","6/30/2017","$489,729.00 ","","wendy.mendes@ucsf.edu","1855 Folsom St Ste 425","San Francisco","CA","1855 Folsom St Ste 425, San Francisco, CA","941034249","4154762977","SBE","1332","1332, 7969, 9178, 9179, SMET","$0.00 ","People detect the emotions, thoughts, and intentions of others from multiple sources - their voice, posture, facial expressions, and behavior. Affect contagion, the spread of emotional states (e.g., stress, feelings, evaluations) from one person to another, is studied in a variety of ways in the social sciences: sociologists find that happiness is contagious within social networks, social psychologists show that mimicking the behavior of others increases liking, and neuroscientists demonstrate that observing someone experience pain produces similar neural activation as experiencing pain. In this project, the researcher team will examine the precursors and consequences of affect contagion in groups, including the role of social status. This work provides new knowledge on group dynamics that will identify how and why emotions spread between individuals. These findings can enhance our understanding and improvement of the interpersonal processes influencing team members from a variety of groups important to American society such as the military, families, and medical teams. The research team also plans to work with the San Francisco Exploratorium, a science museum and learning laboratory for all ages, to develop exhibits that teach visitors how to achieve interpersonal synchrony and how it influences human social interaction. <br/><br/>The research team proposes three studies examining affect contagion. To examine this, the researchers will assess physiological responses. The first study will examine how different types of affect (i.e., positive or negative) and arousal intensity influence affect contagion. The perceived status of the paired participants will also be assessed. The second study will examine how status roles influence affect contagion by focusing on medical students who are paired with lower status (undergraduates) or upper status (residents) partners; the last study will experimentally manipulate status within dyads. Integrating sophisticated psychophysiology measures and statistical modeling, these studies will thoroughly examine how affect spreads within a dyad and the important role of social status in catching others' emotions.","crimson_battery","Affect contagion: Exploring the catalytic effects of status",
"1453213","CAREER:Broadening Participation in STEM: Intersectional and Institutional Influences on Underrepresented Minorities' College and Career Pathways in Longitudinal Perspective","HRD","Core R&D Programs","2/15/2015","2/9/2016","Sarah Ovink","VA","Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University","Continuing grant","Celestine Pea","1/31/2020","$179,234.00 ","","sovink@vt.edu","Sponsored Programs 0170","BLACKSBURG","VA","Sponsored Programs 0170, BLACKSBURG, VA","240610001","5402315281","EHR","7980","1045","$0.00 ","The Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program is a National Science Foundation (NSF)-wide activity that offers awards in support of junior faculty who exemplify the role of teacher-scholars through outstanding research, excellent education, and the integration of education and research within the context of the mission of their organizations. In a post-recession context of rising income inequality, the importance of a college degree to the attainment of financial stability remains critical. This project looks at ways to address this continuing problem for underrepresented minority (URM) undergraduate students in STEM disciplines at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (VT). The research is significant since college achievement, persistence and career attainment in STEM remain unequal by gender, race/ethnicity, and family income, both within and across group categories. Therefore, this research will examine continuing intersectional inequalities and explore what can be done to improve institutional policies and practices that might be promoting such conditions at VT. This research aligns well with the university President's Inclusion and Diversity Executive Council?s agenda, recently reorganized to advance a bold agenda for providing advocacy for inclusion programs and services throughout the university system.<br/><br/>The principal investigator's (PI) research will capitalize on the inclusion agenda through two overarching goals. The first goal is to identify and examine individual and institutional influences that lead to variance in college persistence, graduation and career outcomes by gender, race/ethnicity, and family income. The second goal is multi-tiered and aims to increase the number and diversity of professionals conducting STEM research through training and mentoring of graduate and undergraduate students. This goal also increases the use of mixed-methodology by graduate and undergraduate students relative to postsecondary research; career trajectories; and the retention, graduation, and successful career attainment among targeted URM. This study is potentially transformative in that existing studies focus more on monolithic explanations for male or female pathways rather than intersectional inequalities.<br/><br/>The PI builds this project on an intersectional framework combining theories of structure and sociological gender theory to examine how the confluence of individual beliefs (meanings and utility) and institutional practices (policies and programs) in the college context affect student achievement, persistence, and college and degree attainment across categories of difference. The PI will use longitudinal in-depth interviews and secondary survey data to examine these individual and institutional factors. The in-depth interviews will be conducted in five waves with 500 URM undergraduate students. Additional focus group interviews will be conducted by dyads of peer interviewers. Surveys will be specific to VT and include multi-year common datasets as well as those administered to freshman, seniors, and other class levels on student enrollment, persistence, graduation rates, and financial aid. Data from the interviews and surveys will be analyzed to determine what steps VT might take to increase the participation of URM undergraduate students in STEM careers. The findings will also be disseminated nationally and internationally to fill gaps in the literature about how addressing intersectional inequalities might substantially improve URM participation in STEM.","mauve_atom","CAREER:Broadening Participation in STEM: Intersectional and Institutional Influences on Underrepresented Minorities' College and Career Pathways in Longitudinal Perspective",
"1159679","RI: Medium: Bringing Sentiment Analysis and Social Network Analysis Together","IIS","ROBUST INTELLIGENCE","6/1/2012","9/26/2013","Christopher Potts","CA","Stanford University","Continuing grant","Donald T. Langendoen","5/31/2017","$1,006,337.00 ","Jurij Leskovec, Daniel McFarland, Daniel Jurafsky","cgpotts@stanford.edu","3160 Porter Drive","Palo Alto","CA","3160 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA","943041212","6507232300","CSE","7495","7495, 7924","$0.00 ","Recent years have seen extraordinary breakthroughs in computational sentiment analysis and social network analysis. This research has helped to reveal that robust language understanding --- in dialogue, in text, on the Web --- depends on accurately identifying attitudes, emotions, and social relationships. However, missing from the current scientific and technical picture is a deep understanding of the ways in which sentiment affects, and is affected by, our interpersonal relationships and social networks. The central goal of this project is to fill this gap by developing algorithms, methods, and data sets for modeling sentiment as social and interpersonal. The approach balances fine-grained sociological and linguistic study, computational modeling, and large-scale data-mining of weblogs and other interactive social media.<br/><br/>This research aims to reshape the field of sentiment analysis by moving it towards inferential models of emotional language as situated in specific social contexts. It also provides social network analysis with rich features for characterizing social ties, thereby facilitating the identification of new latent structure in social networks. The work addresses a wide variety of social and political issues, including the extent of media polarization, the effects of bias and framing, and the role of emotional content in shaping the flow of information. It can also inform the creation of the next generation of communication tools --- software for virtual meetings and online collaboration that intelligently tracks users' evolving attitudes, social networking platforms that distinguish relationship types, and data-mining tools relevant for legal discovery, intelligent tutoring, and media analytics.","lime_atom","RI: Medium: Bringing Sentiment Analysis and Social Network Analysis Together",
"1560629","CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: A Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for the ""Smart City""","ECCS","CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS (CPS)","1/31/2015","11/18/2015","Robert Gao","OH","Case Western Reserve University","Standard Grant","Radhakisan S. Baheti","9/30/2016","$107,107.00 ","","Robert.Gao@case.edu","Nord Hall, Suite 615","CLEVELAND","OH","Nord Hall, Suite 615, CLEVELAND, OH","441064901","2163684510","ENG","7918","7918","$0.00 ","The project aims at making cities ""smarter"" by engineering processes such as traffic control, efficient parking services, and new urban activities such as recharging electric vehicles. To that end, the research will study the components needed to establish a Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for urban environments and address fundamental problems that involve data collection, resource allocation, real-time decision making, safety, and security. Accordingly, the research is organized along two main directions: (i) Sensing and data acquisition using a new mobile sensor network paradigm designed for urban environments; and (ii) Decision Support for the ""Smart City"" relying on formal verification and certification methods coupled with innovative dynamic optimization techniques used for decision making and resource allocation. The work will bring together and build upon methodological advances in optimization under uncertainty, computer simulation, discrete event and hybrid systems, control and games, system security, and formal verification and safety. Target applications include: a ""Smart Parking"" system where parking spaces are optimally assigned and reserved, and vehicular traffic regulation.<br/><br/>The research has the potential of revolutionizing the way cities are viewed: from a passive living and working environment to a highly dynamic one with new ways to deal with transportation, energy, and safety. Teaming up with stakeholders in the Boston Back Bay neighborhood, the City of Boston, and private industry, the research team expects to establish new collaborative models between universities and urban groups for cutting-edge research embedded in the deployment of an exciting technological, economic, and sociological development.","golden_battery","CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: A Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for the ""Smart City""",
"1550914","Engineering a Better Future: Interplay of Social Science, Engineering and Innovation","SMA","SCIENCE OF SCIENCE POLICY","2/1/2016","7/31/2015","Eswaran Subrahmanian","PA","Carnegie-Mellon University","Standard Grant","Maryann Feldman","1/31/2017","$48,131.00 ","","sub@cmu.edu","5000 Forbes Avenue","PITTSBURGH","PA","5000 Forbes Avenue, PITTSBURGH, PA","152133815","4122689527","SBE","7626","7626","$0.00 ","The best engineering innovation anticipates user characteristics and culture, which can be improved with active involvement by the social scientists. Engineers often implicitly play the role of sociologist, economist, political scientist and policy analyst in their work. The decisions engineers make often changes the patterns of our lives, yet in ways that are not considered in the design or application of technology. Innovations that have been socially embedded such as the cell phone and the internet are transforming the economic, social, cultural and physical well-being of people all over the world, often in ways that were unanticipated. The focus on this workshop is to integrate social science concepts, methods and research into engineering to affect the technology developed, evaluated and the diffused. <br/><br/>The workshop will bring together scholars from a variety of social science and engineering disciplines. The workshop is divided into four themes: literary and historical view of engineering, engineering perspectives on social sciences, social science perspective on engineering, and engineering education incorporating social sciences. The primary objective of this workshop is to promote new collaborative research incorporating the social science methods and considerations into engineering research and design.","crimson_battery","Engineering a Better Future: Interplay of Social Science, Engineering and Innovation",
"1239021","CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: A Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for the ""Smart City""","ECCS","CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS (CPS)","10/1/2012","9/17/2012","Christos Cassandras","MA","Trustees of Boston University","Standard Grant","Radhakisan S. Baheti","9/30/2016","$700,000.00 ","Azer Bestavros, Assaf Kfoury, Ioannis Paschalidis","cgc@bu.edu","881 COMMONWEALTH AVE","BOSTON","MA","881 COMMONWEALTH AVE, BOSTON, MA","22151300","6173534365","ENG","7918","7918","$0.00 ","The project aims at making cities ""smarter"" by engineering processes such as traffic control, efficient parking services, and new urban activities such as recharging electric vehicles. To that end, the research will study the components needed to establish a Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for urban environments and address fundamental problems that involve data collection, resource allocation, real-time decision making, safety, and security. Accordingly, the research is organized along two main directions: (i) Sensing and data acquisition using a new mobile sensor network paradigm designed for urban environments; and (ii) Decision Support for the ""Smart City"" relying on formal verification and certification methods coupled with innovative dynamic optimization techniques used for decision making and resource allocation. The work will bring together and build upon methodological advances in optimization under uncertainty, computer simulation, discrete event and hybrid systems, control and games, system security, and formal verification and safety. Target applications include: a ""Smart Parking"" system where parking spaces are optimally assigned and reserved, and vehicular traffic regulation.<br/><br/>The research has the potential of revolutionizing the way cities are viewed: from a passive living and working environment to a highly dynamic one with new ways to deal with transportation, energy, and safety. Teaming up with stakeholders in the Boston Back Bay neighborhood, the City of Boston, and private industry, the research team expects to establish new collaborative models between universities and urban groups for cutting-edge research embedded in the deployment of an exciting technological, economic, and sociological development.","golden_battery","CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: A Cyber-Physical Infrastructure for the ""Smart City""",